# Fragile structural transition in Mo₃Sb₇

J.-Q. Yan,^(1, 2) M. A. McGuire,¹ A. F. May,¹ D. Parker,¹ D. G.
Mandrus,^(1, 2) and B. C. Sales¹

¹Materials Science and Technology Division, Oak Ridge National
Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA

²Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee 37996, USA

Received 26 May 2015; revised manuscript received 20 July 2015;
published 10 August 2015

###### Abstract

Mo₃Sb₇ single crystals lightly doped with Cr, Ru, or Te are studied in
order to explore the interplay between superconductivity, magnetism, and
the cubic-tetragonal structural transition. The structural transition at
53 K is extremely sensitive to Ru or Te substitution which introduces
additional electrons, but robust against Cr substitution. No sign of a
structural transition was observed in superconducting
Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇ and Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025). In contrast, 3 at.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.92.064507 PACS number(s): 74.62.Dh,
61.50.Ks, 74.70.Ad, 81.10.Dn + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**92**, 064507 (2015)

## I Introduction

The interplay between structure, magnetism, and superconductivity has
been an active topic in the condensed matter community for decades. For
a variety of materials, superconductivity is found near a magnetic
instability as a function of chemical doping or pressure. This has been
well demonstrated in high-T_(c) cuprates and pnictides. Doping charge
carriers, either holes or electrons, suppresses the antiferromagnetic
order in cuprates or magnetic spin density wave transition in pnictides,
and induces superconductivity. The suppression of magnetism and
appearance of superconductivity are associated with a structural
transition from a high temperature tetragonal phase to a low-temperature
orthorhombic phase in both cuprates and pnictides. Thus, systems with
magnetic and/or structural instabilities have been a fertile ground for
looking for new superconductors. However, despite a tremendous effort in
the last 30 years, the close interplay between magnetism,
superconductivity, and structure and the mechanism mediating pairing are
still under intense debate.

Despite a low T_(c) ∼ 2.08 K [1], the Zintl compound Mo₃Sb₇ appears to
show a close interplay between magnetism, structure, and
superconductivity. Cooling across T_(t) = 53 K, the nearest neighbor
(NN) Mo-Mo distance along the crystallographic c axis shortens leading
to a structural transition from a high temperature Ir₃Ge⁷⁻type cubic
structure (space group $Im\bar{3}m$) to a low-temperature tetragonal
(14/mmm) structure [2,3]. This low-temperature tetragonal phase has been
suggested to be beneficial for the low-temperature superconductivity
[4]. It was suggested that the structural transition leads to the
formation of spin singlet dimers, valence-bond crystal, and the opening
of a spin gap of 120 K [2,3,5,6,7]. The effect of the spin gap on
superconductivity might be rather weak, and possible spin fluctuations
were argued to coexist with superconductivity [8,9]. A previous study on
the transport and magnetic properties under hydrostatic pressure up to
22 kbar showed that T_(t) decreases while T_(c) increases with
increasing pressure [10]. This resembles the pressure dependence of
T_(t) and T_(c) of V₃Si with the A15 structure and AFe₂As₂ (A= Ca, Sr,
and Ba) superconductors [11,12,13]. Moreover, a spin density wave state
was suggested under high pressure that competes with superconductivity
[10]. While high pressure studies on high quality single crystals are
needed to confirm the appearance of this spin density wave state, there
is ample evidence supporting the close correlation between magnetism,
structure, and superconductivity in Mo₃Sb₇.

The effect of Te/Ru doping at high doping concentrations for
Mo_(3 − x)Ru_(x)Sb₇ (x = 0.25, 0.50, and 1.0) and Mo₃Sb_(7 − x)Te_(x)
(x = 0.30, 1.0, 1.60, and 2.2) has been studied both experimentally and
theoretically [14,15,16,17]. Electronic structure calculations suggest a
rigid-band behavior, where Te or Ru doping moves the Fermi level toward
the valence band edge. This is supported by the observation that Mo₃Sb₇
changes from a paramagnetic metal to a diamagnetic semiconductor with
increasing Te or Ru doping. Neither superconductivity, structural
transition, nor spin gap was observed in heavily doped Mo₃Sb₇[16,17]. To
the best of our knowledge, no detailed study has been performed to
explore the correlation between superconductivity, the structural
transition, and magnetism in lightly doped compositions.

In this paper we report the effect of light doping on the structural
transition, superconductivity, and magnetism of Mo₃Sb₇. Our results show
that the structural transition of Mo₃Sb₇ is extremely sensitive to
charge doping. No sign of a structural transition was observed in the
normal state of Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇ (3

## II Experimental details

All crystals were grown out of Sb flux as reported before [18]. The
starting metal powder (Mo, Cr, and Ru) was reduced in flowing Ar
balanced with 4

Elemental analysis of the crystals was performed using a Hitachi TM-3000
tabletop electron microscope equipped with a Bruker Quantax 70 energy
dispersive x-ray (EDX) system. X-ray diffraction on oriented single
crystals and on powder from ground crystals was performed on a
PANalytical X’Pert Pro MPD powder x-ray diffractometer using Cu K_(a1)
radiation. Magnetic properties were measured with a Quantum Design (QD)
Magnetic Property Measurement System in the temperature range
1.8 ≤ T ≤ 300 K. The temperature dependent specific heat and electrical
transport data were collected using a 9 T QD Physical Property
Measurement System.

The density-of-states and additional electrons relative to the
stoichiometric compound were calculated from the converged WIEN2K band
structure, as performed and presented in Ref. [19]. A very large number
of k points–as many as 100 000 in the full Brillouin zone–were used to
evaluate the density-of-states, and appropriate k-point convergence
tests were performed. The number of additional electrons is determined
by integrating the density-of-states, which amounts to the assumption of
rigid band behavior in the addition of dopants such as Ru or Te. For the
purposes of determining the experimental doping levels of Ru and Te,
each Ru (substituting for Mo) is assumed to donate two additional
electrons to the system, as was found by an explicit supercell
calculation in Ref. [19], while Te (substituting for Sb) was assumed to
donate one additional electron to the system, consistent with the
observed approach to a semiconducting state induced by Te doping.

## III Results and Discussions

Room temperature x-ray powder diffraction (not shown) confirmed the
single phase for all compositions studied. In order to correlate the
physical properties with the real dopant content x rather than the
nominal one x_(nominal), elemental analysis was performed with EDX. x
was obtained by averaging the x values measured at five different
locations on each sample. For Te-doped crystals studied in this work,
our EDX does not have the resolution to resolve such a small amount of
Te. Thus we use the nominal composition in the text. For a Ru-doped
compound with the nominal composition Mo_(2.91)Ru_(00.09)Sb₇, x
determined equals x_(nominal). A significant difference between the real
and nominal compositions was observed for a Cr-doped crystal where
Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇ was obtained starting with the nominal
Mo_(2.70)Cr_(0.30)Sb₇. Considering the observation that Cr-doped
crystals cannot be well separated from flux by centrifuging at 700
^(∘)C, Cr might have a limited solubility in Sb flux at the growth
temperatures. If all Cr starting materials are dissolved in Sb flux, the
compositional difference suggests a distribution coefficient of Cr
k_(eff) = C_(L)/C_(S) > 1, where k_(eff) is the distribution
coefficient, and C_(L) and C_(S) are the concentrations of Cr in the
melt and crystals.

Figure 1(a) shows the temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility
measured at a magnetic field of 10 Oe in both zero-field-cooling and
field-cooling modes. T_(c) was suppressed from 2.35 K for Mo₃Sb₇ to 2.15
K for Mo_(2.91)Ru_(00.09)Sb₇ and 2.05 K for Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025),
respectively. No superconductivity was observed for
Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇ above 1.80 K. The suppression of superconductivity
with doping was further supported by the temperature dependence of the
electrical resistivity [Fig. 1(b)] and specific heat [Fig. 1(c)].

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility
χ(T) measured under a field of 60 kOe. The magnetic susceptibility of
Mo₃Sb₇, Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025), and Mo_(2.91)Ru_(00.09)Sb₇ show similar
temperature dependence. Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇ exhibits a strong
Curie-Weiss (CW) tail below

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of magnetic
susceptibility around T_(c) measured under an applied magnetic field of
10 Oe in both zero-field-cooling and field-cooling modes. Inset shows
the photograph of a Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇, single crystal on a
millimeter grid. (b) Temperature dependence of electrical resistivity
around T_(c). (c) Temperature dependence of specific heat around T_(c).
Data for Mo₃Sb₇ are replotted from Ref. [18]. Vertical dashed lines
highlight the superconducting transition temperatures.

40 K in χ(T). This is as expected since Cr has a larger localized moment
than Mo. The magnetic moment on Cr ions was estimated to be 1.1 μ_(B)/Cr
by fitting the low-temperature CW tail. It is worth mentioning that the
strong CW tail is inherent to the Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇ crystals and
comes mainly from the isolated Cr spins. The broken Mo-Mo dimers by the
Cr substituent may have a small contribution to the low-temperature CW
tail, as evidenced by the low-temperature χ(T) of Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇.

Below 20 K, χ(T) curves for other compositions show little temperature
dependence, which signals the good quality of our crystals. At high
temperatures, a broad maximum was observed for all compositions. The
broad maximum occurs at approximately T_(max) = 175 K for Mo₃Sb₇ and
Mo_(2.91)Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025). For the other two compositions with
substitution at the Mo site, the broad maximum shifts to lower
temperatures.

χ(T) of Mo₃Sb₇ shows a rapid drop around T_(t) = 53 K, which leads to a
distinct maximum around 53 K in the dχ/dT (inset of Fig. 2). For
Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇, dχ/dT was obtained by first subtracting the
low-temperature CW tail with χ_(CW) = C/(T − θ), where C is the Curie
constant and θ is the Weiss constant. A distinct maximum was observed
around 48 K. In contrast, this feature becomes less distinguishable and
only a broad maximum was observed around 50 K in dχ/dT of
Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025) and Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇.

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of specific heat plotted as
C_(p)(T)/T vs T around the structural transition. The slight difference
in the magnitude of specific heat may come from the different Debye
temperatures and/or experimental error. A weak λ anomaly near T_(t) = 53
K is well resolved for the parent compound. This anomaly becomes smaller
in magnitude and shifts to ∼48 K for Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇. In contrast,
no anomaly was observed in the C_(p)(T)/T curves in the normal state of
Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025) and Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇. The temperature
dependence of C_(p)(T) and dχ/dT suggests the structural transition
disappears in Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025) and Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇.

To confirm the doping effect on the structural transition of Mo₃Sb₇, the
evolution with temperature of the cubic (800) peak was studied on
oriented single crystals in the temperature interval 10 ≤ T ≤ 100 K. As
shown in Fig. 4, the (800) peak splits below 54 K signaling the lowering
of the symmetry from cubic to tetragonal for Mo₃Sb₇. This peak splitting
was observed at ∼48 K for Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇. In sharp contrast, no
peak splitting was observed for Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025) and
Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇. The x-ray diffraction experiments provide direct
and unambiguous evidence for (1) the absence of the structural
transition in Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025) and Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇, and (2)
the suppression of structural transition to 48 K in
Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇. These results are consistent with other bulk
properties. At 11 K, the a/c ratio was obtained to be 1.002 for both
Mo₃Sb₇ and Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇.

The absence of a structural transition in Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇ and
Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025) is rather unusual. The shift of T_(max) in χ(T)
curves to lower temperatures signals that the Mo-Mo antiferromagnetic
interaction is disturbed by the random distribution of Ru or Cr at Mo
site and possible breaking of Mo-Mo dimers. From this point of view, the
substitution at Mo site should suppress the structural transition. This
is supported by the case of Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇, where 3 at.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of specific heat of
doped Mo₃Sb₇ single crystals. Data for Mo₃Sb₇ are replotted from Ref.
[18].

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of magnetic
susceptibility measured with a magnetic field of 60 kOe. The dashed
curve shows the magnetic susceptibility of Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇ after
subtracting the low-temperature Curie-Weiss tail. The solid curves are
fittings with the models described in text. The inset shows the
temperature derivative of magnetic susceptibility, dχ(T)/dT. dχ(T)/dT
for Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇ was obtained from the dashed curve. Data for
Mo₃Sb₇ are replotted from Ref. [18].

observed above T_(c) for Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇, where similar amount of
Mo is replaced by Ru, from the temperature dependence of magnetization,
specific heat, electrical resistivity (not shown), and x-ray
diffraction. Therefore, disturbing the Mo sublattice by substitution at
the Mo site does not drive the suppression of the structural transition
in Mo₃Sb₇. The doping effect of Te on the structural transition further
supports the above conclusion.

Substitution of Sb by Te does not disturb the Mo sublattice directly.
However, as in Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇, no structural transition was
observed by x-ray diffraction above 11 K and no anomaly associated with
the structural transition was observed in the temperature dependence of
magnetization, specific heat, and electrical resistivity in the normal
state. Thus, Te substitution affects the structural transition in a way
similar to that of Ru substitution although they reside at different
crystallographic sites. Considering both dopants introduce additional
electrons, we suggest that the structural transition is sensitive to
electron concentration.

A band Jahn-Teller effect was proposed to induce the structural
instability in cubic superconductors such as A15 compounds [11].
However, our band structure calculations for Te- and Ru-doped
compositions suggest that light doping induces little change of the
degeneracy and curvature of the valence bands, consistent with previous
reports [16,17]. Thus a band Jahn-Teller effect is unlikely to drive the
structural transition in Mo₃Sb₇. The density-of-states with doping is
presented in Fig. 5, and was calculated from the converged WIEN2K band
structure, as performed and presented in Ref. [19]. The electron DOS at
the Fermi level increases slightly with Te or Ru substitution in the
doping range studied in this work. No dramatic change of the electron
DOS at the Fermi level is induced by the light doping.

To further understand how Ru or Te dopants affect the structural
transition, the magnetic susceptibility data are analyzed in more
detail. A previous study measuring ^(121/122)Sb nuclear quadrupole
resonance and muon spin relaxation of Mo₃Sb₇ suggested the importance of
the interdimer magnetic interactions [6]. The Mo-Mo magnetic
interactions between the nearest neighbors ($J_{\rm NN}$) (i.e., the
intradimer interaction) and next nearest neighbors ($J_{\rm NNN}$) were
estimated by fitting the χ(T) data above T_(t) with the mean-field
modification of the Bleaney-Bowers equation [5,20,21,22]:

$$\chi(T)=\chi_{0}+\frac{N_{A}\mu_{B}g^{2}g^{2}}{k_{B}T[3+\exp(2J/k_{B}T)+J^{ \prime}/k_{B}T]},$$
(1)

where χ₀ is a temperature independent term, N_(A) is the Avogadro
number, μ_(B) is the Bohr magneton, k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant,
$J=J_{\rm NN}$ is the intradimer interaction, and J^(′) is the
interdimer interaction beyond the nearest Mo-Mo neighbors. The
interdimer interaction includes the interaction $J_{\rm NNN}$ between
next-nearest neighbors with a Mo-Mo distance of 4.642 A and the
interaction J₁ between the chains with a Mo-Mo distance of 5.220 A [18].
Thus the interdimer interaction can be written as
$J^{\prime}=8J_{\rm NNN}+4J_{1}$. With the assumption of J proportional
to the Mo-Mo distance, J₁ can be estimated as $0.88J_{\rm NNN}$[5]. The
obtained magnetic interactions are shown in Fig. 5 as a function of
extra electrons. The following features are noteworthy: (1) the
intradimer interaction $J_{\rm NN}$ is suppressed by partial
substitution of Mo with Ru, but not by Sb with Te. This agrees with an
intuitive picture that Te substitution disturbs only the Sb sublattice.
$J_{\rm NN}$ shows little dependence on Te doping, indicating the
absence of structural transition in doped compositions is not driven by
$J_{\rm NN}$; (2) substitution at either Mo or Sb site rapidly
suppresses $J_{\rm NNN}$; and (3) a larger suppression of $J_{\rm NNN}$
(∼50

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature dependence of (800) reflections for
(a) Mo₃Sb₇, (b) Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.105)Sb₇, (c) Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇, and
(d) Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025). The data were collected on oriented single
crystals.

Figure 5: (Color online) The evolution with extra electrons of (a) the
electron DOS at the Fermi level, and (b) $J_{\rm NN}$ (open symbols) and
$J_{\rm NNN}$ (solid symbols). The number of additional electrons is
determined by integrating the density-of-states, which amounts to the
assumption of rigid band behavior in the addition of dopants such as Ru
or Te. Dashed lines in (b) are a guide to the eyes.

Considering that the structural transition disappears in both Te- and
Ru-doped compositions, we suggest that the structural instability is
very sensitive to $J_{\rm NNN}$. The absence of the structural
transition in 0.36

For the χ(T) of Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇ we always observe the anomaly
around 48 K in the dχ/dT curve when we fit the low-temperature CW term
with different parameters. However, $J_{\rm NN}$ and $J_{\rm NNN}$
determined using Eq. (1) depend on the low-temperature CW term.
Therefore, unfortunately, we cannot extract reliable J from fitting χ(T)
of Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇.

The temperature dependence of magnetization, electrical resistivity, and
specific heat shown in Fig. 1 clearly demonstrates that all dopants
suppress T_(c). The absence of superconductivity in
Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇ above T≥ 1.8 K suggests that the superconductivity
in Mo₃Sb₇ is sensitive to magnetic dopants [23]. Together with the fact
that light Ru and Te doping suppresses superconductivity but increases
the DOS at E_(F), we can conclude that the superconductivity in Mo₃Sb₇
is sensitive to disorder and/or magnetic dopants as in cuprates. This
makes it difficult to understand how the superconductivity reacts to the
suppressed $J_{\rm NNN}$ by Te or Ru doping. The occurrence of
superconductivity in the cubic phase of Mo₃Sb_(6.975)Te_(0.025) and
Mo_(2.91)Ru_(0.09)Sb₇ and the tetragonal phase of Mo₃Sb₇, and the
absence of superconductivity in the tetragonal phase of
Mo_(2.90)Cr_(0.10)Sb₇ observed in this study suggest that the tetragonal
phase is not necessary for the superconductivity.

## IV Summary

In summary, the effects of light doping of Mo₃Sb₇ with Ru, Cr, or Te
have been studied in single crystals grown by a self-flux technique. All
dopants suppress superconductivity. Superconductivity in Mo₃Sb₇ is
sensitive to magnetic dopants and disorder but can exist in both cubic
and tetragonal phases. The structural transition is extremely sensitive
to additional electrons introduced by Te or Ru substitution. Analysis of
the magnetic susceptibility data suggests that the interdimer magnetic
interaction $J_{\rm NNN}$ is essential for the structural transition and
is close to a critical value in Mo₃Sb₇. Our study highlights the
importance of magnetism in the structural transition of Mo₃Sb₇. The
sensitivity of the structural transition to electron doping and
superconductivity to substitution suggests that hydrostatic pressure
would be a cleaner tool to tune the ground state and to explore the
correlation between structure, magnetism, and superconductivity in
Mo₃Sb₇.

## Acknowledgment

This research was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of
Science, Basic Energy Sciences, Materials Sciences and Engineering
Division.

## References

* [1] Z. Bukowski, D. Badurski, J. Stepien-Damm, and R. Troc, Solid
State Commun. **123**, 283 (2002). * [2] H. Okabe, S. Yano, T. Muranaka,
and J. Akimitsu, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **150**, 052196 (2009). * [3] T.
Koyama, H. Yamashitaa, T. Kohara, Y. Tabatab, and H. Nakamurab, Mater.
Res. Bull. **44**, 1132 (2009). * [4] B. Wiendlocha and M. Sternik,
Intermetallics **53**, 150 (2014). * [5] V. H. Tran, W. Miiller, and Z.
Bukowski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 137004 (2008). * [6] T. Koyama, H.
Yamashita, Y. Takahashi, T. Kohara, I. Watanabe, Y. Tabata, and H.
Nakamura, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 126404 (2008). * [7] V. H. Tran, A.
D. Hillier, D. T. Adroja, Z. Bukowski, and W. Miiller, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **21**, 485701 (2009). * [8] C. Candolfi, B. Lenoir, A.
Dauscher, C. Bellouard, J. Hejtmanek, E. Santava, and J. Tobola, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **99**, 037006 (2007). * [9] B. Wiendlocha, J. Tobola, M.
Sternik, S. Kaprzyk, K. Parlinski, and A. M. Oles, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
060507(R) (2008). * [10] V. H. Tran, R. T. Khan, P. Wisniewski, and E.
Bauer, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **273**, 012088 (2011). * [11] L. R.
Testardi, Rev. Mod. Phys. **47**, 637 (1975). * [12] D. C. Johnston,
Adv. Phys. **59**, 803 (2010). * [13] A. S. Sefat, Rep. Prog. Phys.
**74**, 124502 (2011). * [14] C. Candolfi, B. Lenoir, C. Chubilleau, A.
Dauscher, and E. Guilmeau, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **22**, 025801
(2010). * [15] C. Candolfi, J. Leszczynski, P. Masschelein, C.
Chubilleau, B. Lenoir, A. Dauscher, E. Guilmeau, J. Hejtmanek, S. J.
Clarke, and R. I. Smith, IEEE/TMS J. Electron. Mater. **39**, 2132
(2010). * [16] C. Candolfi, B. Lenoir, A. Dauscher, J. Hejtmanek, and J.
Tobola, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 235108 (2009). * [17] C. Candolfi, B.
Lenoir, A. Dauscher, J. Hejtmanek, and J. Tobola, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
155127 (2009). * [18] J.-Q. Yan, M. A. McGuire, A. F. May, H. B. Cao, A.
D. Christianson, D. G. Mandrus, and B. C. Sales, Phys. Rev. B **87**,
104515 (2013). * [19] D. Parker, M. H. Du, and D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 245111 (2011). * [20] B. Bleaney and K. D. Bowers, Proc. R. Soc.
London Ser. A **214**, 451 (1952). * [21] T. Nakajima, H. Mitamura, and
Y. Ueda, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 054706 (2006). * [22] Y. Chen, T.
Liu, C. He, and C. Duan, J. Mater. Chem. **22**, 19872 (2012). * [23] M.
B. Maple, Appl. Phys. **9**, 179 (1976).
