Interplay of superconductivity and charge density wave ordering in
pseudoternary alloy compounds: Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅,
Lu₂(Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x))₃Si₅, and (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Ir₃Si₅

N. S. Sangeetha

Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati,
Guwahati, Assam 781039, India

A. Thamizhavel

Department of Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science, Tata
Institute of Fundamental Research, Homi Bhabha Road, Colaba, Mumbai
400005, India

C. V. Tonry

Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai
400076, India

Saurabh Basu

Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai
400076, India

A. M. Awasthi

IUC-DAEF, Indira

S. Ramakrishnan

Department of Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science, Tata
Institute of Fundamental Research, Homi Bhabha Road, Colaba, Mumbai
400005, India

D. Pal

d. Pal@iitp.ac.in Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology
Bombay, Mumbai 400076, India

November 7, 2021

###### Abstract

We explore the interplay and competition between superconductivity (SC)
and the charge density wave (CDW) ordering transition on pseudoternary
alloys (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Ir₃Si₅, Lu₂(Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x))₃Si₅, and
Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅ via magnetization, thermal and transport
measurements. We track the evolution of the superconducting transition
temperature $T_{\rm SC}$ and the CDW ordering transition temperature
$T_{\rm CDW}$ as a function of doping concentration x to present a
temperature-concentration phase diagram for each of the series of
compounds. We find that as we increase x, $T_{\rm CDW}$ and $T_{\rm SC}$
show a nonmonotonic behavior in Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅. Here, we
observe that both CDW and SC survive till 20

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.86.024524 + Footnote †: preprint: PJYSICAL B 86,
024524 2012

## I Introduction

The charge density wave (CDW) transition is a well-known phenomenon in a
large variety of quasi-low-dimensional conductors. Their appearance is
basically due to the nesting of the Fermi surface arising out of low
dimensionality. This is very well documented from the early works of
many research groups.[1, 2, 3] In the past several years a wide range of
quasi-low-dimensional compounds such as K_(0.3)MoO₃ (Refs. [4, 5, 6]),
NbSe₃ (Ref. [7]), ZrTe₃ (Ref. [8]), 2H-TaSe₂ or 2H-NbSe₂, TiSe₂ or
high-T_(C) cuprates,[9, 10, 11] so an and different families of organic
materials (TTF-TCNQ and Bechgaard salts)[12, 13] have been under
extensive investigation. Superconductivity (SC) also appears in some
materials such as 2H-NbSe₂ which is a multigaps-wave superconductor.[14,
15] The interplay between magnetic order and superconductivity has
received considerable attention with the discovery of pnictide
superconductors.[16, 17] SC and CDW are two very different cooperative
phenomena, both of which occur due to Fermi surface (FS) instabilities
that result in the opening up of a gap at the FS, leading to a reduction
in the density of states (DOS) at the FS below their respective
transition temperatures. In the newly found arsenic superconductors, it
was found that the suppression of the spin density wave, either by
external pressure or chemical pressure, broadens the superconducting
region drastically.[18, 19, 20] In Cu_(x)TiSe₂, the superconductivity
originates only after a considerable suppression of the CDW
ordering.[21] Similarly, Xiangde _et al._ have very recently reported
the coexistence of bulk superconductivity and charge density wave in Cu
intercalated quasi-two-dimensional crystals of ZrTe₃ (Ref. [22]). These
results further indicate that the superconductivity and CDW compete with
each other. It is therefore of great interest to investigate the effects
that SC and CDW have on each other when both happen to occur in the same
system.[23] However, most of these studies have been done on systems
with quasi-low-dimensional structures. CDW is generally observed in
compounds with lower dimensionality (two dimensional or one dimensional,
2D/1D) and the transition is a second-order one. The low dimensionality
produces anisotropic Fermi surfaces with a small curvature that is
favorable for nesting and this leads to the CDW formation. But recently
the 2-3-5 as well as the 5-4-10 series compounds, which are considered
to have a three-dimensional (3D) structure, have provided evidence of
CDW ordering, accompanied by a first-order transition. Hence it appears
that in these materials, due to the presence of the 3D structures, it is
unlikely to get a perfect nesting, but the Fermi surface has an unusual
feature such that imperfect nesting effects remain a possibility, like
spin density wave (SDW) in chromium metal.

Hence, to gain a comprehensive understanding of the coexistence,
competition, or interplay of charge density wave with magnetism or
superconductivity, new classes of materials, especially those having a
3D structure are needed. Recently the three-dimensional rare-earth
intermetallic compounds belonging to the series R₃T₄X₁₀ (R = rare-earth
elements; T = transition metal, and X = s-p metal) have provided a
platform to investigate different types of cooperative phenomena. For
example, an interplay of SC and CDW can be realized if R is nonmagnetic
whereas it is competing between magnetism and CDW/SDW if R is magnetic
and so on.[24, 25, 26, 27] Similarly, the rare-earth transition metal
silicides and germanides with the general formula R₂T₃X₅ have attracted
considerable attention due to the variety of phase transitions and
remarkable physical properties that they exhibit.[28, 29] Among the
known alloys, Lu₂Ir₃Si₅ shows a superconducting transition at 3.5 K and
undergoes another phase transition below 190 K which has been shown to
be a strongly coupled charge density wave ordering.[30] Electrical
resistivity data for Er₂Ir₃Si₅ exhibit a weak anomaly at 150 K (Ref.
[31]). Thus, it would be interesting to study the competition/interplay
between CDW and SC properties on Lu₂Ir₃Si₅. In particular, we are aware
of only three reports on phase transitions in Lu₂Ir₃Si₅ (Refs. [30, 32,
33], One observes significant effect in the variation of the transition
temperature of CDW/SC of Lu₂Ir₄Si₁₀ on the application of (chemical)
pressure or by changing the density of electrons in the Fermi
surface.[34] Hence it would be important to investigate the consequence
of the chemical pressure and variation of electrons in the Fermi surface
in Lu₂Ir₃Si₅. Lu₂Ir₃Ge₅ is isostructural to that of Lu₂Ir₃Si₅, but
differs only by the size of a unit cell, hence one would expect a CDW
transition also in Lu₂Ir₃Ge₅. However, Lu₂Ir₃Ge₅ is found to show only a
superconducting transition below 1.8 K without any signature of CDW
ordering.[35] Thus it is of interest to investigate how the CDW and SC
evolve when we substitute Ge in the Si site of Lu₂Ir₃Si₅. Further, it is
well known that in 2-3-5-systems the density of electrons in the Fermi
surface is governed mostly by the transition metals.[36] Hence it is of
interest to examine the influence of Rh at the Ir site of this compound,
as it has been already established that Lu₂Rh₃Si₅ show normal behavior
till 1.8 K (Ref. [37]). Further, it would be of interest to see the
influence of Sc on the Lu site, as it was demonstrated earlier that the
Lu atom was responsible for the origin of CDW in Lu₂Ir₃Si₅ (Ref. [25]).
In this paper, we use the pseudoternary system of Lu₂Ir₃Si₅ to
investigate the effects of atomic disorder ([Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Ir₃Si₅),
the density of states at the Fermi level [Lu₂(Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x))₃Si₅] and
the lattice volume [Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅] on both CDW and
superconductivity via dc magnetic susceptibility, electrical
resistivity, and heat capacity measurements.

## II Experiment

The polycrystalline samples of Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅,
Lu₂(Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x))₃Si₅, and (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Ir₃Si₅ were prepared
by arc melting the stoichiometric mixtures of constituent elements (the
purity of Lu, Si, Ge was 99.999

The crystal structure of Lu₂Ir₃Si₅ is shown in Fig. 1. The ternary
rare-earth-transition metal silicide Lu₂Ir₃Si₅ crystallizes in the
three-dimensional orthorhombic U₂Co₃Si₅ type structure with the space
group _Ibam_ (No. 72). The Ir-Si-Ir bond forms as a cage around the Lu
atom. The Lu atoms form a two-dimensional array with the shortest Lu-Lu
distance of 3.911 A. By analyzing the distances between other atoms,
these Lu atoms have the shortest distance with respect to all other
bonds, suggesting a quasi-1D conducting channel in the Lu-Lu chain
developing along the c axis. The lattice constants a, b, and c were
estimated from the Revicted fit of their powder x-ray diffraction
patterns by using the fullprof program. The results are listed in the
Table 1.

Figure 1: (Color online) The crystal structure of Lu₂Ir₃Si₅. The large
(red) spheres correspond to the Lu atom, Ir atoms with medium (yellow)
spheres, and Si atoms with small (green) spheres.

## III Results

### Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅

#### iii.1.1 X-ray diffraction studies

The x-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of the samples clearly reveals the
absence of any impurity phase and also confirms that the samples
crystallize in the U₂Co₃Si₃ type of structure with the space group
_Ibam_. The lattice constants a, b, and c were estimated from the
Reitveld fit of their powder x-ray diffraction patterns by using the
fullprof program.[38] The refinement was done using the site occupation
for constituent elements determined by the electron probe microanalyzer
(EPMA), shown in Fig. 2. The results are listed in Table 1 and the
corresponding unit cell volume and c/a ratio are plotted in Fig. 3. The
a axis of the unit cell increases progressively as the Ge concentration
increases up to 2

We also have performed an energy-dispersive x-ray analysis and confirmed
the stoichiometry of Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅ (x = 0.0-0.2) crystals as
well.

#### iii.1.2 Magnetic susceptibility studies

The temperature dependence of the dc susceptibility for the
pseudoternary alloys of Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅ for a low
concentration of x = 0.00-0.2 is shown in Fig. 4. The left panels in the
figure show the low temperature (1.8 to 10 K) zero-field-cooled (ZFC)
(it is warming data in a field after the sample was cooled in zero
field) data in the field of 1 mT to observe the existence of
superconductivity in the samples. The field-cooled (FC) (the sample was
cooled in the presence of the field and then warming up data in the
presence of a field was recorded) does show a bifurcation from the ZFC
data at the onset of the diamagnetic signal (data not presented here).
The superconducting transition is clearly seen with the appearance of
the diamagnetic signal

Figure 4: The temperature dependence of the dc susceptibility for the
samples of Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅ with x = 0.00–0.2. The left panels
demonstrate the low temperature behavior of dc susceptibility which
highlights the superconducting transition. The right panels show the CDW
transition for these samples.

Figure 2: (Color online) Powder x-ray diffraction data of the
Lu₂Ir₃Si_(4.95)Ge_(0.05). The solid line represents the simulated data
using fullprof (Reitveld Program).

around the ordering region, however, the transition is not complete till
1.8 K and shows features of superconductivity. The superconducting
transition temperature for the undoped sample (x = 0.00) matches with
the previously reported value,[33] but it is 2 K higher than that
reported by Singh _et al.[30]_ The difference can be seen with all the
doped compounds which may be due to the disorder, defects, or
inhomogeneities (on the atomic scale) present in our samples. We suspect
that the differences in the transition temperature $T_{\rm SC}$ are
caused by strain-induced disorder in the sample arising from defects or
localized atomic disorder. Hence as the chemical pressure is not uniform
throughout the sample, so different regions undergo transitions at
different temperatures and hence the two-step transition was observed.
It can also be related to the presence of a different phase suggested by
the EPMA result.

The right panels show the susceptibility data over temperatures from 100
to 300 K in a field of 5 T to highlight the CDW transition. The
diamagnetic drop in χ (right panels of the figure) is the striking
feature of the CDW transition for the nonmagnetic samples, which is
consistent with the previous result.[30] This is attributed to a
reduction of the electronic density of states at the Fermi level which
results in the partial opening of an energy gap at the Fermi level. It
can immediately be seen that even a small Ge concentration affects the
CDW strongly. As the Ge concentration increases in the alloy from
x = 0.00 to x = 0.02, $T_{\rm CDW}$ starts to decrease from 200 K
corresponding to the undoped sample Lu₂Ir₃Si₅, down to 160 K and then
increases gradually up to 231 K for the higher concentration of Ge
(x > 0.02) (see the right panels of Fig. 4). The value of the
$T_{\rm CDW}$ is determined by the peaks in the derivative (dχ/dT vs T)
plots. Importantly, there is a corresponding change in the
superconducting transition temperature $T_{\rm SC}$. The observed
transition temperature varies systematically as a function of x; the
$T_{\rm SC}$ rises to a maximum value of 7.7 K for x = 0.2 and then
drops to 3.6 K (see the left panel of Fig. 4). It is interesting to note
that both SC and CDW orderings do not vanish even with 20

#### iii.2.3 Resistivity studies

Figures 5 and 6 are the plots of the normalized electrical resistivity
as a function of temperature from 1.8 to 300 K of the pseudoternary
systems Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅ for x = 0.00, 0.004, 0.01, and 0.02
and for x = 0.05, 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2, respectively. The main panel
demonstrates the CDW transition at higher temperatures. The insets of
the figure show the low temperature behavior of resistivity between 1.8
to 9 K, where we can clearly observe a sharp drop in resistivity at a
certain temperature, highlighting the SC transition. Again, the
resistive drop does not become zero till 1.8 K, in corroboration of the
low temperature susceptibility data. We anticipate that the resistivity
for the above compounds will go to zero below 1.8 K, the lowest
temperature available in our setup.

It is to be noted that ρ(T) at higher temperatures depicts the
semimetallic CDW character of the pseudoternary alloys of
Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅. The multiple transitions at the low
temperature region corroborates with the susceptibility data and may
have its origin in the EPMA results. It is noticed that the step in the
transition gradually vanishes with the increase in Ge concentration and
the plausible explanation is that it occurs due to the relaxation of the
lattice chain via lattice expansion. The upturn in the resistivity data
at higher temperatures occurs due to the opening up of a gap at the
Fermi level indicating the CDW ordering. After reaching the maximum, the
resistivity continues to show metallic behavior down to the lowest
temperature and then finally undergoes the superconducting transition.
Thus the electronically separated phase transition is associated with
the metal-insulator-metal transition due to the partial gap of the Fermi
surface. We also observe an increase in $T_{\rm SC}$ (from 5.5 to 7.7 K)
as the Ge concentration increases from x = 0.004 to x = 0.02, while
$T_{\rm CDW}$ shifts to lower temperatures (from 200 to 160 K) for these
samples (see Fig. 5). For the samples with a higher Ge substitution, a
reverse trend is observed in both the $T_{\rm SC}$ and $T_{\rm CDW}$
transitions [i.e., the decrease in the SC transition temperature while
the CDW ordering temperature is enhanced from 160 to 231 K (see Fig.
6)]. The dc susceptibility data are in good agreement with the above
inference.

It has been suggested that the CDW formation and superconductivity are
competing phenomena since both compete for the density of states near
the Fermi surface. Hence the presence of impurities in a CDW material
may lead to a change in the CDW transition temperature and also possible
smearing of the CDW transition. In addition to impurity, scattering of
electrons and inducing a finite electron lifetime

Figure 5: The temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity for
Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅ with x = 0.00, 0.004, 0.01, and 0.02. The main
panels shows the variation of resistivity from 1.8 to 300 K. The insets
show resistivity data between 1.8 to 9 K to highlight SC transition.

may also induce Friedel oscillations in the electron-charge
distribution, leading to a static lattice distortion which leads to the
modification of the CDW transition temperature.[26] All these facts may
contribute in their own ways and hence the CDW transition temperature
shows a modulation as the amount of Ge in the alloy
Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅ varies.

$T_{\rm CDW}$ is determined from the temperature of the peak position in
the plot of dρ/dT vs T and the transition width $\triangle\,T_{\rm CDW}$
is defined by the full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the peaks at the
transition, as observed in the derivatives of the resistivity data. The
temperature dependence of the CDW transition temperature $T_{\rm CDW}$,
the amplitude of the anomaly in resistivity △ρ/ρ(300 K), the
superconducting transition temperature $T_{\rm SC}$ for the different
composition of the alloy Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅ and the sharpness of
the transition $\triangle\,T_{\rm CDW}/T_{\rm CDW}$ are listed in Table
2. One can see that the reduction of △ρ and $\triangle T_{\rm CDW}$
anticorrelates with the $T_{\rm SC}$ increase for the Ge concentration
ratio between 0.00 and 0.02. In the region of doping concentration, x =
0.05-0.2, the value of △ρ does not show any change, which may be due to
the saturation of the influence of disorder in the system.

#### iii.2.4 Heat-capacity studies

The temperature dependence of heat capacity (C_(P)) for
Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅ is fitted above the superconducting transition
using the given expression

$$C_{\rm Tot}=C_{\rm elec}+C_{\rm Ph}=\gamma\,T+\beta\,T^{3},$$
(1)

where $C_{\rm elec}$ is due to the electronic contribution and
$C_{\rm Ph}$ is due to the phonon contribution, with γ and β being
constants. From the γ and β values, we can calculate the enhanced
density of states at the Fermi level

N^(*)(E_(F)) = 3γ/2π²N x k_(B)²
(2)

as well as the Debye temperature,

$$\theta_{D}=\left(\frac{12\pi^{4}N\,x\,k_{B}}{5\beta}\right)^{1/3},$$
(3)

where N is the Avogadro number, x is the number of atoms per formula
unit, and k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant. Using the value of θ_(D) and
$T_{\rm SC}$, we can calculate the electron phonon scattering parameter
$\lambda_{\rm SC}$ from McMillan’s theory;[22] the expression is given
as

$$\lambda_{\rm SC}=\frac{1.04+\mu^{*}{\rm ln}(\theta_{\rm D}/1.45\,T_{\rm SC})}{ (1-0.62\mu^{*}){\rm ln}(\theta_{\rm D}/1.45\,T_{\rm SC})-1.04}.$$
(4)

Hence, the bare density of states is obtained as

$$N(E_{F})=N^{*}(E_{F})/(1+\lambda_{\rm SC}).$$
(5)

The estimated superconducting parameters from C_(P) data are presented
in Table 3.

The heat capacity data in the temperature range from 120 to 300 K for
the compounds Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅ are shown in Figs. 7 and 8. The
observed specific heat C_(P) is a combination of the contribution from
the lattice background and anomalous

Table 11: The fitting parameters extracted from the specific heat data
of (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Ir₃Si₅ using a model of critical fluctuations and
mean-field contributions near CDW region.

of the CDW transition temperature and also lead to the possible smearing
of the CDW transition itself (see Table 11). Figure 22 depicts the
temperature-concentration phase diagram of (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Ir₃Si₅. We
determined the initial concentration dependence (for small x) of
$T_{\rm CDW}$ to be $(dT_{\rm CDW}/dx)=-4.07(\pm 0.2)$ K/at.

In all of the above the temperature-concentration phase diagram, we
noticed that the disorder plays a little role in the
suppression/enhancement of CDW and SC.

## V Conclusion

In conclusion, the interplay and competition between the CDW and
superconductivity in pseudoternary systems of
[(Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Ir₃Si₅], [Lu₂(Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x))₃Si₅], and
[Lu₂Ir₃(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₅] are studied in detail via electrical,
magnetic, and thermal properties. Our experiments reveal that the CDW
formation in these compounds is sensitive to atomic disorder. The
superconducting transition is not complete down to zero until 1.8 K for
all the substituted alloys in the system. In this context, we would like
to mention that preliminary measurements on single crystal Lu₂Ir₃Si₅ do
not show a sharp drop of resistance to zero in the superconducting
state. We find that there is a correlation between $T_{\rm SC}$ and
$T_{\rm CDW}$. Analysis of heat capacity data in the vicinity of the CDW
phase transition suggests that it is a strongly coupled and
non-mean-field-like CDW transition. The critical exponent parameters
extracted from the critical fluctuation model suggest that the CDW
transition gradually changes from first-order-like to a
second-order-like transition with the increase of concentration in the
substituted alloys.

###### Acknowledgements.

N.S.S. thanks A. K. Grover, TIFR Mumbai, for his various kinds of
support throughout the current research work. N.S.S. is also grateful to
H. R. Naren for his help during the experiments. C.V.T. would like to
acknowledge the Department of Science and Technology for the partial
support through Project No. IR/S2/PV-10/2006.

## References

* [1] R. E. Peierls, _Quantum Theory of Solids_ (Oxford University
Press, New York, 1955). * [2] G. Gruner, _Density Waves in Solids_
(Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA, 1994). * [3] W. L. McMillian, Phys. Rev. B
**16**, 643 (1977). * [4] L. Degiorgi, B. Alavi, G. Mihaly, and G.
Gruner, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 7808 (1991). * [5] G. Travaglini, P.
Wachter, J. Marcus, and C. Schlenker, Solid State Commun. **37**, 599
(1981). * [6] G. Travaglini and P. Wachter, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 1971
(1984). * [7] A. Fournel, J. P. Sorbier, M. Konczykowski, and P.
Monceau, Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 2199 (1986). * [8] K. Stowe and F. R.
Wagner, J. Solid State Chem. **138**, 160 (1998). * [9] S. Sridhar, D.
Reagor, and G. Gruner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **55**, 1196 (1985). * [10] T.
Yokoya _et al._, Science **294**, 2518 (2001). * [11] K. A. Muller and
J. G. Bednorz, Science **237**, 1133 (1987). * [12] T. Giamarchi, S.
Biermann, A. Georges, and A. Lichtenstein, J. Phys. IV (France) **114**,
23 (2004). * [13] A. Schwartz, M. Dressel, G. Gruner, V. Vescoli, L.
Degiorgi, and T. Giamarchi, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 1261 (1998). * [14] R.
C. Morris, Phys. Rev. Lett. **34**, 1164 (1975). * [15] E. Revolinski,
G. A. Spiering, and D. J. Beerntsen, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **26**, 1029
(1965). * [16] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J.
Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [17] I. I. Mazin and M. D.
Johannes, Nat. Phys. **5**, 141 (2008). * [18] F. Han, X. Zhu, P. Cheng,
G. Mu, Y. Jia, L. Fang, Y. Wang, H. Luo, B. Zeng, B. Shen, L. Shan, C.
Ren, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 024506 (2009). * [19] G. F.
Chen, Z. Li, D. Wu, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, J. Dong, P. Zheng, J. L. Luo, and
N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 247002 (2008). * [20] M. S.
Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 057006 (2008). * [21] E. Morosan, H. W. Zandbergen, B. S.
Dennis, J. W. G. Bos, Y. Onose, T. Klimczuk, A. P. Ramirez, N. P. Ong,
and R. J. Cava, Nat. Phys. **2**, 544 (2006). * [22] X. Zhu, H. Lei, and
C. Petrovic, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**, 246404 (2011).

* (23) Kazaushige Machida and Masaru Kato, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 854
(1987). * (24) H. D. Yang, R. N. Shelton, and H. F. Braun, Phys. Rev. B
**33**, 5062 (1986). * (25) B. Becker, N. G. Patil, S. Ramakrishnan, A.
A. Menovsky, G. J. Nieuwenhuys, J. A. Mydosh, M. Kohgi, and K. Iwasa,
Phys. Rev. B **59**, 7266 (1999). * (26) H. D. Yang, P. Klavins, and R.
N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7688 (1991). * (27) K. Ghosh, S.
Ramakrishnan, and G. Chandra, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 4152 (1993). * (28)
C. B. Vining and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **28**, 2732 (1983). * (29)
H. F. Braun, Phys. Lett. A **75**, 386 (1980). * (30) Y. Singh, D. Pal,
S. Ramakrishnan, A. M. Awasthi, and S. K. Malik, Phys. Rev. B **71**,
045109 (2005). * (31) Y. Singh, D. Pal, and S. Ramakrishnan, Phys. Rev.
B **70**, 064403 (2004). * (32) M. H. Lee, C. H. Chen, M.-W. Chu, C. S.
Lue, and Y. K. Kuo, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 155121 (2011). * (33) Y. K.
Kuo, K. M. Sivakumar, T. H. Su, and C. S. Lue, Phys. Rev. B **74**,
045115 (2006). * (34) R. N. Shelton, L. S. Hausermann-Berg, P. Klavins,
H. D. Yang, M. S. Anderson, and C. A. Swenson, Phys. Rev. B **34**, 4590
(1986). * (35) Y. Singh and S. Ramakrishnan, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 174423
(2004). * (36) J. A. Gotaas, J. W. Lynn, R. N. Shelton, P. Klavins, and
H. F. Braun, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 7277 (1987). * (37) S. Ramakrishnan,
M. G. Patil, A. D. Chinchure, and V. R. Marathe, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
064514 (2001). * (38) Juan Rodriguez-Carvajal, Physica B **55**, 192
(1993). * (39) Y.-K. Kuo, F. H. Hsu, H. H. Li, H. L. Huang, C. W. Huang,
C. S. Lue, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 195101 (2003). * (40)
Y.-K. Kuo, C. S. Lue, F. H. Hsu, H. H. Li, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B
**64**, 125124 (2001). * (41) R. S. Kwok, G. Gruner, and S. E. Brown,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 365 (1990). * (42) R. S. Kwok and S. E. Brown,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 895 (1989). * (43) M. Chung, Y.-K. Kuo, X.
Zhang, E. Figueroa, J. W. Brill, and G. Mozurkewich, Synth. Met. **71**,
1891 (1995). * (44) R. A. Craven and S. F. Meyer, Phys. Rev. B **16**,
4583 (1977). * (45) J. L. Hodeau, M. Marezio, C. Roucau, R. Ayroles, A.
Meerschaut, J. Rouxel, and P. Monceau, J. Phys. C: Solid State Phys.
**11**, 4117 (1978). * (46) Y. Singh, R. Nirmala, S. Ramakrishnan, and
S. K. Malik, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 045106 (2005). * (47) J. Friedel, _The
Physics of Metals_, edited by J. M. Ziman (Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, England, 1969), Chap. 8. * (48) R. H. Friend, D. Jerome, D.
M. Schleich, and P. Molinie, Solid State Commun. **27**, 169 (1978).
