# High anisotropy and a dimensionality crossover in the irreversibility
behavior

of oxygen-deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y)

K. E. Gray, D. H. Kim, and B. W. Veal

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439

G. T. Seidler and T. F. Rosenbaum

James Franck Institute and the Department of Physics, University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637

D. E. Farrell

Department of Physics, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio
44106

25 November 1991

###### Abstract

The width in temperature of the reversible, lossy state of
high-temperature superconductors (HTS’s) in a magnetic field H depends
on the degree of anisotropy. Compared to the parent compound YBa₂Cu₃O₇,
we show here that oxygen-deficient, YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) single crystals, in
which T_(c) was varied from 10 to 55 K, are much more anisotropic and
that the occurrence of the reversible, lossy state for the H∥c axis is
consistent with a crossover from three-dimensional (3D) vortex lines to
2D vortices, as recently proposed for the other highly anisotropic
HTS’s. These results, together with those from Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O_(x) and
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x), indicate universal behavior of almost isolated Cu-O
bilayer units, albeit with different doping levels, and which display
magnetic reversibility controlled by the residual weak interplanar
coupling.

The wide temperature range of the reversible, lossy state of the
high-temperature superconductors (HTS’s) in a magnetic field was
recognized[1] soon after their discovery. This behavior, which had gone
virtually undetected in conventional superconductors, is of interest,
both for a fundamental understanding of the HTS’s and because it
degrades their performance in finite-field applications. Resistance
measurements in magnetic fields parallel to the c axis for a series of
the highly anisotropic high-temperature superconductors have been
interpreted[2] in terms of a change in dimensionality, in which motion
of the external flux results from a thermally activated crossover from
three-dimensional (3D) vortex _lines_ to 2D vortices[3] that can move
independently in the Cu-O bi- or trilayers (multilayers). The authors of
Ref. [2] further concluded that because of strong interlayer coupling by
the Cu-O chains in YBa₂Cu₃O₇, crossover never occurs below the upper
critical field H_(c2)(T). However, it is well known[4] that when oxygen
is removed from YBa₂Cu₃O₇, the chains are depopulated first, presumably
leading to fewer holes in the Cu-O layers and a lower transition
temperature T_(c). In this paper we show evidence that with decreasing
oxygen the chains in severely oxygen-deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) also
become less effective at coupling the neighboring Cu-O bilayers. The
anisotropy between the c-axis direction and ab plane increases
significantly. Torque magnetization measurement[5] on less
oxygen-deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) also show increases in the anisotropy
and magnetic-field penetration depth which are consistent with our
determinations. In addition, the irreversibility fields, determined here
by magnetic susceptibility or magnetization, are in excellent agreement
with the 3D-to-2D crossover model of Ref. [2]. These results, together
with those from Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O_(x) and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x), indicate
universal behavior of almost isolated Cu-O bilayer units, albeit with
different doping levels and displaying magnetic reversibility controlled
by the residual weak interplanar coupling.

The crossover to 2D severely weakens the effective pinning, since the 2D
vortices must then rely on pinning only in their own _individual_ Cu-O
multilayer. In the model the 3D-to-2D crossover occurs[2] when thermal
fluctuations have significantly weakened the Josephson coupling of the
phases of the superconducting order parameter between neighboring Cu-O
multilayers. Simultaneously, the Josephson tunneling changes from
coherent to incoherent. Using Josephson tunneling[6; 7] for the
_interlayer_ vortex coupling and conventional 2D depinning[8; 9] for the
isolated Cu-O multilayers, the characteristic crossover fields H^(•)(T)
for the more highly anisotropic HTS’s, i.e., Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O_(x),
TlBa₂CaCu₂O_(x), TlBa₂CaCu₂O_(x) and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x), were fit[2]
convincingly with parameters which are in substantial agreement with
available measurements or reasonable expectations. The systematics of
these parameters further supported a Josephson-tunneling model, since
fitted values of the c-axis resistivities ρ_(c) depended approximately
exponentially on the insulator width between Cu-O multilayers, with a
reasonable tunneling barrier height of ∼0.8 eV. Recent experiments on a
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x) single crystal using the high-Q mechanical-oscillator
technique[10] exhibited two loss peaks, anticipated by the model[2] and
thus giving it further support.[11] The single loss peak in
mechanical-oscillator experiments[12] on YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is consistent with
the absence of the 3D-to-2D crossover.

In this model there are two relevant energies for the 2D vortices. The
first is for coupling between adjacent Cu-O bilayers, and it is given by
the Josephson-coupling energy for the phase of the superconducting order
parameter,[8]E_(cj)(H, T). The second is for vortex motion within each
isolated Cu-O bilayer, which is modeled by conventional depinning.[8]
The model of Ref. [2] defined a characteristic crossover temperature
from 3D to 2D vortices, as H and/or T increase, by

$$k_{B}T = 2E_{cj}(H,T) = \frac{\pi\hbar\Delta(T)}{e^{2}R_{N}}\,\tanh\left[\frac{\Delta(T)} {2k_{B}T}\right](1 - b)\ ,$$
(1)

where the factor of 2 accounts for both Cu-O bilayers (above and below),
R_(N) is the normal-state resistance of the junction, Δ(T) is the energy
gap, and b ≡ H/H_(c2). Note that such a crossover is meaningful only if
the well-coupled 3D vortex lines are sufficiently pinned somewhere along
their length. In the 2D isolated Cu-O bilayer regime, as H and/or T
increase, a characteristic temperature for vortex motion _within their
individual Cu-O bilayer_ was defined by

$$k_{B}T = E_{cp}(H,T) = \alpha_{p}\pi\xi_{ab}^{2}d_{s}\frac{B_{c}^{2}}{2\mu_{0}}(1 - b)^{2}\ ,$$
(2)

where E_(cp)(H, T) is the energy associated with 2D depinning,[8]α_(p)
represents the effective strength of the pinning, ξ_(ab) is the in-plane
coherence length, d_(s) is the bilayer thickness, and B_(c) is the
thermodynamic critical field. For magnetization relaxation or the
dissipation found in transport,[2] the 2D vortices must be completely
excited out of their potential wells, and so the condition is

k_(B)T = 2E_(cj)(H^(•), T) + E_(cp)(H^(•), T) ,
(3)

which can be solved for H^(•)(T), the crossover field.

In order to confirm the applicability of the 3D-to-2D crossover model,
the anisotropy was measured in fully annealed samples with y ∼ 0.6 by
torque magnetization[13] and with y ∼ 0.62 by resistivity ratio: They
indicated  ∼ 2500 and 3000, respectively, which is a significant
increase over the value of 30 for YBa₂Cu₃O₇. Most of the reversibility
data on oxygen-deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) came from conventional
magnetization irreversibility (samples _A, C, D, E_, and F). Data for
sample B has been presented in Ref. [14]: There the midpoint of the real
part of the susceptibility transition was equated to H^(•). They pointed
out that use of the peak in the imaginary part, or the onset of the real
part, of the susceptibility works equally well. Details of the sample
preparation and susceptibility techniques are given in Ref. [14]. For
the present analysis, only the smallest excitation field of 3.5 G was
used, and these results agreed with standard magnetization measurements.
The data for a particular sample, shown in Fig. 1, are best compared to
the model in a double-logarithmic plot of H/H_(c2)(0) versus 1 − t,
where H_(c2)(0) = 19 T is the upper critical field at zero temperature,
t ≡ T/T_(c0), and T_(c0) = 17 K is the transition temperature in zero
field. At high temperature the fit determines the Josephson-coupling
parameter, essentially ρ_(c), while the rise in H^(•) at low
temperatures determines the pinning parameter, essentially α_(p)B_(c)².

Equally good fits to the model are shown in Fig. 2 for the data taken on
a number of samples for different annealing times (B1 − B4 and D1 − D4)
and oxygen contents. The parameters for these samples, together with
those from the literature[15] for YBa₂Cu₃O₇, are listed in Table 1. The
fitted values of ρ_(c) are much larger than the well-established value
measured in YBa₂Cu₃O₇, for which the 3D-to-2D model must be presumed
inapplicable.[2] Although the in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab) is about 10
times higher for very oxygen-deficient samples than for YBa₂Cu₃O₇,
ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) is still significantly larger than the measured anisotropy.
It should be remembered, however, that resistivity and torque
measurements of the anisotropy may be no more than lower limits:
Estimates for Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x) have steadily progressed from ∼15 to 50
000 as samples and techniques have improved.

The fitted values of B_(c)(0) for oxygen-deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) are
shown in Fig. 3, together with the results of Ref. [2] for
Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O_(x) and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x). These represent a series of
samples, consisting simply of well-isolated Cu-O bilayers, in which
T_(c) varies from 10 to 100 K. Figure 3 shows that B_(c)(0) is closely
proportional

Figure 2: Magnetization and susceptibility determinations of the
irreversibility lines for different annealing times and different oxygen
deficiencies. Curves are offset (by the factor indicated) for clarity.
The letters refer to the samples shown in Table 1.

Figure 1: Magnetic-susceptibility data of the irreversibility line for
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) single crystal. The line represents a calculation of
H^(•) using the 3D-to-2D crossover model of Ref. [2], which is described
in the text.

to T_(c) for all these. We have used the measured value[15] of B_(c)(0)
for YBa₂Cu₃O₇ to fix the undetermined parameter α_(p) at 0.25 for all
data shown in Figs. 3 and 4, but not too much should be read into this
as there is uncertainly in the appropriate coefficient and details of
the low-temperature depinning and/or melting model for the 2D vortices.
The fact that a single α_(p) is appropriate for all these samples is a
bit surprising:

It may imply that there is a universal pinning defect in Cu-O bilayers.
The inset shows a logarithmic plot of this data for comparison with
conventional weak- and strong-coupling elemental and compound
superconductors. BCS theory predicts that

$$B_{c}(0)/k_{B}T_{c} = (\Delta/k_{B}T_{c})\sqrt{4\pi N(0)}\ ,$$

where Δ is the energy gap and N(0) is the density of states of one spin
at the Fermi energy. The variations in N(0) are seen in the data for
conventional superconductors (note that for strong coupling,
Δ/k_(B)T_(c) and often N(0) are larger). Tunneling[16] in both
Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₃O_(x) and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x) shows that
$S\!\equiv\!(\Delta/k_{B}T_{c})/(\Delta_{\rm BCS}/k_{B}T_{c})$ is about
2: Therefore the data of Fig. 3 imply that N(0) ∼ 5 × 10²¹ eV⁻¹ cm⁻³ for
the highly anisotropic HTS’s. This is close to the value of 3.2 × 10²¹
eV⁻¹ cm⁻³, which is the 2D free-electron density of states (for one
spin) m/2πℏ² divided by the average Cu-O _single-layer_ spacing (0.65
nm).

There are good indications that HTS’s are in the clean limit,[17] in
which case H_(c2) = H_(c2)(0) (1 − t²), where
$H_{c2}(0)\!=\!\Phi_{0}/2\pi\xi_{\rm BCS}^{2}$,
$\xi_{\rm BCS}\!=\!\hbar v_{F}/\pi\Delta$, and v_(F) is the Fermi
velocity. Neglecting the small unknown corrections for strong-coupling
effects,[18] but using S = 2, we show the resulting v_(F) in Fig. 4.
Therefore we expect a considerable variation in the London penetration
length,

$$\lambda_{ab}^{-2} = \frac{4\pi r_{0}N(0)mv_{F}^{2}}{3}\ ,$$
(4)

for the constant N(0) found above (here r₀ is the classical electron
radius e²/mc²). This variation has been found in both torque[5] and
muon-spin measurements.[19] Note that this determination of λ_(ab) is
identical to the use of B_(c)(0) and H_(c2)(0) to find $\xi_{\rm GL}$
and
$\kappa\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!  areal carrier density (both spins) per Cu-O layer, \(n_{a}$,
since in a 2D free-electron system one expects
$n_{a}\!=\!(m\!\ /\pi\overline{n}^{2})mv_{F}^{2}/2$. This interpretation
with the fit of Fig. 4 would imply that T_(c) is proportional to n_(a).
An alternative explanation is that spin fluctuations become important as
the antiferromagentic insulator is approached with decreasing oxygen
content. This pair-breaking interaction would not only reduce T_(c), but
it would provide a mass enhancement to reduce v_(F). However, the fact
of 3 in v_(F) is hard to account for in, e.g., an Allen-Dynes
formulation.[20]

The inset of Fig. 4 shows a strong dependence of T_(c) on ρ_(c) for
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), but not for Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O_(x) and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x).
Thus, in addition to decreasing T_(c), the depopulating and/or
disordering of the chains is seen to systematically decrease the c-axis
coupling (conductivity). This may reflect chain segments acting to short
out the Josephson tunneling between Cu-O bilayer units.

In summary, we have shown that oxygen-deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) single
crystals become significantly more anisotropic than the parent compound
YBa₂Cu₃O₇. In addition, the proposed model of resistive broadening in
the highly anisotropic HTS’s, as a crossover from 3D vortex lines to 2D
vortices, is consistent with the recent, magnetically determined
irreversibility fields for oxygen-deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) single
crystals, in which T_(c) varied from 10 to 55 K. Studies are also
planned to determine how, and at what oxygen concentration, the 3D-to-2D
crossover becomes relevant. The parameters determined and derived from
such fits are consistent with the isolated Cu-O bilayers being 2D,
nearly free-electron systems in which T_(c) is primarily determined by
the areal carrier density. Finally, the system properties seem to depend
on the value of T_(c) and not whether it was achieved through decreased
oxygen content or thermally quenched disorder of the Cu-O chains.

This work is partially supported by the U.S. Department of Energy,
Division of Basis Energy Sciences-Materials Sciences (K.E.G. and D.H.K.)
under Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38 and the National Science Foundation
(DMR 88-09854) through the Science and Technology Center for
Superconductivity (G.T.S. and T.F.R.). The work at Case Western Reserve
University (D.E.F.) was supported by NASA Grants No. NAG-3-814 and No.
NCC 123 and by the National Science Foundation Grant No. NSF-DMR
89-13651.

## References

* [1] K. A. Muller, M. Takashige, and J. G. Bednorz, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**58**, 1143 (1987). * [2] D. H. Kim, K. E. Gray, R. T. Kampwirth, J. C.
Smith, D. S. Richeson, T. J. Marks, J. H. Kang, J. Talvacchio, and M.
Eddy, Physica C **177**, 431 (1991). * [3] J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. B
**43**, 7837 (1991). * [4] J. D. Jorgensen, B. W. Veal, A. P. Paulikas,
L. J. Nowicki, G. W. Crabtree, H. Claus, and W. K. Kwok, Phys. Rev. B
**41**, 1863 (1990). * [5] B. Janossy, D. Prost, S. Pekker, and L.
Fruchter, Physica C **181**, 51 (1991). * [6] V. Ambegaokar and A.
Baratoff, Phys. Rev. Lett. **10**, 486 (1963). * [7] D. H. Kim, K. E.
Gray, and J. H. Kang, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 7563 (1992). * [8] K. E.
Gray, R. T. Kampwirth, J. M. Murduck, and D. W. Capone II, Physica C
**152**, 445 (1988). * [9] P. H. Kes, J. Aarts, J. van den Berg, C. J.
van der Beek, and J. A. Mydosh, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **1**, 242
(1989). * [10] C. Duran, J. Yazyi, F. de la Cruz, D. J. Bishop, D. B.
Mitzi, and A. Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 7737 (1991). * [11] K. E.
Gray and D. H. Kim (unpublished). * [12] P. L. Gammel, L. F.
Schneemeyer, J. V. Waszczak, and D. J. Bishop, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**,
1666 (1988). * [13] D. E. Farrell, C. M. Williams, S. A. Wolf, N. P.
Bansal, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 2805 (1988). * [14] G.
T. Seidler, T. F. Rosenbaum, D. L. Heinz, J. W. Downey, A. P. Paulikas,
and B. W. Veal, Physica C **183**, 333 (1991). * [15] U. Welp, W. K.
Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, K. G. Vandervoort, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**62**, 1908 (1989); A. Umezawa, G. W. Crabtree, U. Welp, W. K. Kwok, K.
G. Vandervoort, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 8744 (1990); L.
Krusin-Elbaum, R. L. Greene, F. Holtzberg, A. P. Malozemoff, and Y.
Yeshurun, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 217 (1989). * [16] Qiang Huang, J. F.
Zasadzinski, K. E. Gray, J. Z. Liu, and H. Claus, Phys. Rev. B **40**,
9366 (1989); Qiang Huang, J. F. Zasadzinski, K. E. Gray, E. D. Bukowski,
and D. M. Ginsberg, Physica C **161**, 141 (1989). * [17] K. Kamaras _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 84 (1990). * [18] T. P. Orlando, E. J.
McNiff, Jr., S. Foner, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545
(1979). * [19] Y. J. Uemura _et al._ Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317
(1989). * [20] P. B. Allen and R. C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 905
(1975); K. E. Gray, R. T. Kampwirth, D. W. Capone, R. Vaglio, and J. F.
Zasadzinski, _ibid._**38**, 2333 (1988).

Figure 4: Dependence of Fermi velocity, as derived in the text, on
T_(c). The straight line is a least-squares fit. The inset shows the
dependence of T_(c) on the fitted value of ρ_(c)(0) for the
oxygen-deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) data (solid diamonds) and for
Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O_(x) and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x) from Ref. [2] (open circles). The
line if a least-squares power-law fit to the oxygen-deficient
YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) − γ.
