Specific heat, magnetic susceptibility, resistivity and thermal
expansion of the superconductor ZrB₁₂

R. Lortz,¹ Y. Wang,¹ S. Abe,¹ C. Meingast,² Yu. B. Paderno,³ V.
Filippov,³ and A. Junod^(1, *)

¹Department of Condensed Matter Physics, University of Geneva, CH-1211
Geneva 4 (Switzerland)

²Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe, Institut fur Festkorperphysik, 76021
Karlsruhe, Germany

³Institute for Problems of Materials Science NANU, Kiev, Ukraine

24 February 2005; published 29 July 2005

###### Abstract

In an attempt to clarify conflicting published data, we report new
measurements of specific heat, resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, and
thermal expansivity up to room temperature for the 6 K superconductor
ZrB₁₂, using well-characterized single crystals with a residual
resistivity ratio >9. The specific heat gives the bulk result
2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c)=3.7 for the superconducting gap ratio, and excludes
multiple gaps and d-wave symmetry for the Cooper pairs. The Sommerfeld
constant γ_(n)=0.34 mJ K⁻² gat⁻¹ and the magnetic susceptibility χ=−2.1
× 10⁻⁵ indicate a low density of states at the Fermi level. The Debye
temperature θ_(D) is in the range 1000−1200 K near zero and room
temperature, but decreases by a factor of ∼2 at ∼35 K. The specific heat
and resistivity curves are inverted to yield approximations of the
phonon density of states F(ω) and the spectral electron-phonon
scattering function α_(ν)²F(ω), respectively. Both unveil a 15 meV mode,
attributed to Zr vibrations in oversized B cages, which gives rise to
electron-phonon coupling. The thermal expansivity further shows that
this mode is anharmonic, while the vanishingly small discontinuity at
T_(c) establishes that the cell volume is nearly optimal with respect to
T_(c).

24 February 2005; published 29 July 2005

## Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity at about 40 K in the metallic
compound MgB₂[1, 2] has stimulated a renewed interest in borides. The
highest superconducting critical temperature in the MB₁₂ family is found
in ZrB₁₂ with T_(c)=6 K.[3] This relatively high value compared to other
dodecaborides has been considered as puzzling in view of the
particularly low density of states at the Fermi level revealed by early
measurements, such as the specific heat[3] and the magnetic
susceptibility.[4] The exceptional hardness of this compound is
reflected in the initial Debye temperature θ_(D)(0) of the order of 1000
K.[3] The minor fraction of transition-metal atoms appears to be
responsible for superconductivity, as shown by a comparison with similar
materials.[4] Measurements of the isotope effect confirm this view: the
exponent dln T_(c)/dln m for boron, −0.09 ± 0.05,[5] is small compared
to that for zirconium, −0.32 ± 0.02.[6] The boron sublattice appears to
serve as an inert background. The crystal structure (space group Fm3m,
a=7.388 A)[7, 8] is isotropic and based on a fcc arrangement of
zirconium atoms, each of them being surrounded by 24 boron atoms
arranged on a truncated octahedron. ZrB₁₂ has the smallest lattice
constant of all known dodecaborides,[9] which suggests that the
superconducting critical temperature might increase under pressure.

Recently, large and homogeneous single crystals became available,[10]
and several papers addressed again the properties and the
superconducting mechanism of ZrB₁₂. Electron transport,
penetration-depth, point-contact spectroscopy (PCS), scanning tunneling
spectroscopy (STS), and ac and dc magnetization were investigated, with
apparently conflicting results. The coupling strength appears to be
weak, with a gap ratio 2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c)=3.64 according to transport.[11]
Consistently with this result, the thermodynamic critical field obtained
from magnetization measurements follows a BCS-like behavior.[12] However
PCS[11] and STS[12] rather indicate very strong coupling with a gap
ratio 2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c)=4.8. The symmetry of the superconducting wave
function appears to be d wave according to the temperature dependence of
the penetration depth,[13] but s wave according to STS and PCS.[11, 12]
Similar discrepancies appear in the characterization of phonons. The
Debye temperature is reported to be θ_(D) =270−300 K according to
transport,[13, 14, 15] but 930 K according to early specific-heat
measurements.[3] Magnetic properties also are controversial: the upper
critical field H_(c2)(0) is reported to be in the range of 1100 to over
2000 G according to PCS, radio-frequency susceptibility, and
transport,[11, 13] but only 390 G according to dc magnetization.[12]
Even the issue of type-I or type-II superconductivity is debated.[12,
13] Some of these discrepancies were discussed in terms of surface
superconductivity.[12]

This situation motivated us to measure again the specific heat, a
technique which, at variance with many experiments cited above, is a
bulk probe sensitive to volume-averaged quantities. Results will be
presented in two papers. In the present one, we report specific-heat
data measured with high accuracy up to room temperature in zero magnetic
field. By using an inversion process, we obtain a coarse determination
of the phonon density of states (PDOS) F(ω). An important observation is
that the PDOS departs markedly from the Debye model, featuring both very
high cutoff energies and initial Debye temperature of the order of ∼1000
K, and an excess weight at intermediate energy. In parallel with
specific heat, we report resistivity data in the same temperature range.
By using a similar inversion technique, we obtain a coarse picture of
the spectral electron-phonon coupling function relevant for transport,
α_(ν)²F(ω). The function α_(ν)²F(ω) is closely related to the coupling
function α²F(ω) that deter mines the superconducting critical
temperature.[16; 17] The isotopic average of the electron-phonon matrix
element α_(ν)²F(ω)/F(ω) is found to be particularly large at phonon
energies of the order of 15 meV. Implications on superconductivity and
previous apparent discrepancies are discussed.

Having measured the specific heat in the normal and in the
superconducting state, we can determine the coupling strength in various
ways. Our bulk data unambiguously point to weak coupling. The comparison
of the Sommerfeld constant with the bare density of states at the Fermi
level[18] confirms that the electron-phonon renormalization is small. We
do not observe any power-law dependence of the specific heat at T≪T_(c)
that could be indicative of an unconventional symmetry of Cooper pairs.
Finally we address the question of the possible pressure enhancement of
the critical temperature by measuring the thermal expansivity, which is
thermodynamically related to the pressure dependence of T_(c). We find
that T_(c) of ZrB₁₂ is nearly at its optimum with respect to the cell
volume. The study of the phase diagram in the H-T plane, showing the
unusual occurrence of type-II/1 superconductivity, is presented in a
second paper.[19]

## II Experimental

Single crystals were grown by the Kiev group by zone melting under argon
atmosphere as described in Refs. 10-12, to which we refer for more
detailed characterization. The large sample used for specific-heat
measurements is a parallelepiped shaped by spark cutting followed by
etching in a boiling HNO₃:H₂O 1:1 solution. Its dimensions are 4.8 × 4.7
× 2.9 mm³, with the ⟨100⟩ axis normal to the larger face; its mass is
0.21 g. The sample used for resistivity and magnetization measurements
is a rod cut parallel to the ⟨100⟩ direction with a diamond saw. Its
length is approximately 5.3 mm, its section 0.33 mm², and its mass 6.5
mg. The demagnetization factor is D ≡ 0.03 along the long axis.

Energy-dispersive x-ray diffraction measurements (EDX) were used to
check variations of the concentration from the center to the edges of
the large sample, since the surface of the original cylindrical ingot
tends to be boron-deficient. The B/(B + Zr) ratio (ideally 0.923) varies
significantly (i.e., beyond 2σ=0.01) only in two corners of the sample,
over a layer of a few tenths of a mm, where at the same time 7

The superconducting transition temperature T_(c) was determined by four
methods: resistivity [Fig. 1(a)], ac susceptibility [Fig. 1(b)], dc
magnetization [Fig. 1(c)], and specific-heat jump at T_(c) [Fig. 1(d)]
which, in this order, are increasingly representative of the bulk volume
(Table 1). On the average, T_(c) ≡ 5.96 K and the bulk transition width
is ≈0.5

  ------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------
                                        T_(c) midpoint (K)    ΔT_(c) (mK)
  Resistivity                                  5.97          <25 (0%–100%)
  AC susceptibility @ 8 kHz, 0.01 Oe           5.98          80 (10%–90%)
  Meissner magnetization @ 1.75 Oe             6.00          20 (10%–90%)
  Specific-heat jump                           5.91          <30 (0%–100%)
  ------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------

Table 1: Critical temperature and transition width measured by different
methods. Differences result from independent temperature calibrations,
differences in heating rates, and data density.

Figure 1: Superconducting transition of the ZrB₁₂ crystal observed by
(a) resistivity, (b) ac susceptibility, (c) Meissner magnetization, and
(d) specific heat.

These experiments demonstrate the remarkable bulk homogeneity of the
superconducting properties of the single crystal.

The resistivity [Fig. 1(a)] was measured in a dc four-lead technique
with offset compensation in a Quantum Design MPMS-5 magnetometer using a
universal probe, a dc source, and a dc nanovoltmeter. The resistance of
the contacts realized with silver paint were of the order of 1 O each.
Data were taken from 2 to 320 K in zero field, using currents of 6 and
20 mA. For this experiment, the residual field of the MPMS magnet was
zeroed by monitoring the magnetization of a Pb sphere. In-field data
will be reported in a second paper.[19] The low-temperature resistivity
does not change appreciably below  10 K, making the determination of the
residual resistivity _r_(0) = 1.925 _m_O cm unambiguous. Together with
_r_(300) = 17.95 _m_O cm at room temperature, the residual resistivity
ratio is found to be _r_(300)/_r_(0) = 9.325. Uncertainties in the
absolute values due to geometrical factors are of the order of 10

The Meissner magnetization [Fig. 1(c)] was measured in a Quantum Design
MPMS-5 magnetometer using a scan length of 4 cm. The sample was cooled
from above T_(c) to 5 K in a field of 1.75 Oe [ 0.4

The specific heat was measured by a generalized relaxation technique at
low temperature (1.2-16 K),[21] and using an adiabatic,
continuous-heating calorimeter at high temperature (15-300 K).[21] Care
was taken to zero the residual field of the 14 T magnet mounted in the
cryostat. This precaution turned out to be important in view of the
small critical field of ZrB12. For this purpose, in a preliminary
experiment, we maximized the superconducting transition temperature of a
pure Pb wire. As a sensitive check, we verified that the superconducting
transition of ZrB12 was free from any latent heat. For normal-state
specific-heat measurements, we applied a field of 5000 Oe. Results are
shown in Fig. 3.

A high-resolution capacitance dilatometer[22, 23] was used to measure
the thermal expansion in the temperature range of 4-300 K. Data were
taken upon heating at a constant rate of 15 mK s-1. He exchange gas (100
mbar at 300 K) was used to thermally couple the sample to the
dilatometer.

## Discussion

### Specific heat and electron-phonon coupling strength

Normal-state specific-heat data at low temperature are analyzed in a
standard way according to the formula

C_(n)(T → 0) = γ_(n)T + ∑_(n ≥ 1)β_(2n + 1)T^(2n + 1),
(1)

where the first term is the electronic contribution, with g_(n) =
$\frac{1}{3}\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}(1+\lambda_{ep})N_{sb}(E_{F})$, k_(B) is
Boltzmann’s constant, k_(p) is the electron-phonon coupling constant,
and N_(b)(_E__F_) is the band-structure density of states including two
spin directions. The second term is the low-temperature expansion of the
lattice specific heat, with b3 =
$\frac{12}{5}N_{sb}\pi^{4}\theta_{D}^{x 3}(0)$, with N_(b) Avogadros
number and r_(D)(0) the initial Debye temperature. From a fit of
normal-state data from 1.2 to 16 K, we find g_(n) = 0.34 mJ K-2 gat-1
and r_(D)(0) = 970 K. The Sommerfeld constant g_(n) corresponds to a
dressed density of states at the Fermi level _N_(E_(F)) = 0.144 states
eV-1 atom-1. Compared to recent band-structure calculations,[18, 20]
there is room for a small renormalization factor 1 + k_(p) 1.2; in other
words ZrB12 is in the weak-coupling regime of superconductivity.
Consistently with this conclusion, we find that the normalized
specific-heat jump is ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) = 1.66, not far from the
weak-coupling BCS limit 1.43.

The thermodynamic critical field H_(c)(_T_) is obtained by numerical
integration of the data:

Figure 3: Total specific heat _C/T_ of ZrB12 in the superconducting
state (open symbols) and in the normal state (closed symbols) versus
temperature squared. The dashed lines below and above the specific-heat
peak at T_(c) are calculated using the _α_-model with 2Δ(0)/_k__B__T__c_
= 3.5 and 3.9, respectively (best fit: 3.7). Inset: specific heat C
versus temperature up to room temperature ( 3000 independent data).

Figure 2: Magnetic susceptibility in the normal state as a function of
the temperature. Dashed line: average between 50 and 300 K.

$$-\frac{1}{2}\mu_{0}VH_{c}^{2}(T)=\Delta F(T)=\Delta U(T)-T\Delta S(T),$$

ΔU(T) = ∫_(T)^(T_(c))[C_(s)(T^(′)) − C_(n)(T^(′))]dT^(′),

$$\Delta S(T)=\int_{T}^{T_{c}}\frac{C_{s}(T^{\prime})-C_{n}(T^{\prime})}{T^{ \prime}}dT^{\prime},$$
(2)

where V is the volume of one gram-atom (1 gat=1/13 mol corresponds to
4.68 cm³ or 17.0 g) and the specific heat C is given per gat. We obtain
H_(c)(0)= 415 Oe at T=0. The deviation function D(t)= h−(1−t²), where h=
H_(c)(T)/H_(c)(0) and t= T/T_(c), is comparable with that of In or
Sn,[24; 25] and again characteristic of weak coupling. A more
quantitative description of the same experimental information is given
by the α model.[26] We find that the supposedly constant ratio
Δ_(Zn₂[T])/Δ_(BCS)(T) that best fits the normalized electronic
specific-heat curve over the whole temperature range is 1.05, i.e.,
2Δ_(Zn₂B₂)(0)/k_(B)T_(c)=3.7, again only slightly above the
weak-coupling limit 2Δ_(BCS)(0)/k_(B)T_(c)=3.53. In another approach, we
make use of the strong-coupling corrections calculated within the
isotropic single-band model on the basis of Eliashberg theory as given
by Eq. (14) and (15) of Ref. [27]. Taking the measured specific-heat
jump ratio ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c)=1.66 as an input parameter, we obtain for the
characteristic logarithmic average energy $\omega_{\rm in}$ =
exp($\int\ln\omega\alpha^{2}F(\omega)d\omega/\sqrt{\alpha^{2}F(\omega)d\omega/ \omega}$)=159
K, and 2Δ_(Zn₂[2)(0)/k_(B)T_(c)=3.69, in perfect agreement with the
result of the α model. It is concluded that ZrB₁₂ definitely is a
weak-coupling superconductor. Bulk values of the gap ratio obtained here
and values as high as 4.8 obtained by spectroscopic methods[11; 12] are
mutually exclusive. They can only be reconciled if the gap is enhanced
at the surface, as already suggested in Ref. [12], rather than degraded
as would generally be the case for chemical inhomogeneity. This puzzling
issue would deserve additional spectroscopic investigations.

We finally note that the quality of the α-model fit and the shape of the
deviation function exclude d-wave superconductivity. In particular, in
the latter case, the dimensionless ratio γ_(n)T_(c)²/μ₀VH_(c)²(0) would
be nearly twice as large (3.7) as that measured (1.9).[28]

### Specific heat and phonon density of states

The Debye temperature θ_(D)(0)=970 K given by the low-temperature
expansion of the specific heat is consistent with measurements of the
ultrasonic sound velocity, θ_(D)^(elast) = 1040 K.[29] However, the
Debye temperature is not constant. Figure 4 shows ideal Debye curves
C_(D)(T) for selected values of θ_(D), together with the lattice
specific heat measured up to room temperature. It is clear than the data
do not follow any curve with a constant θ_(D), and in particular are
inconsistent with θ_(D)≡ 270−300 K obtained from fits of the resistivity
given in Refs. [13; 14; 15]. The effective Debye temperature is defined
as the value θ_(D)(T) such that the tabulated ideal Debye specific
heat[30]C_(D)(θ_(D)/T) equals the measured lattice specific heat
C_(ph)(T)= C(T)−γ_(n)T at a given temperature T. A correction for the
temperature dependence of γ_(n) does not appear necessary in view of the
absence of structure in the density of states near the Fermi level[18]
and the small electron-phonon renormalization.[16] The effective Debye
temperature is plotted in the inset of Fig. 4. Main features are (i)
θ_(D) at room temperature, 1200 K, is close to θ_(D) at 10 K and (ii)
there is deep minimum at T_(m)≈ 35 K. Whereas point (i) means that both
the initial curvature of F(ω) and the cutoff frequency ω_(D) are
apparently consistent with a single Debye component, point (ii) reflects
additional weight at intermediate energies ω_(E)= 5T_(m)≈ 15 meV.
Analogous situations occur, e.g., in Na and Al due to the presence of
optical phonons[30] and in hexaborides.[31]

The specific-heat data at high temperature have sufficiently low scatter
(∼0.02

F(ω) = ∑_(k)F_(k)β(ω − ω_(k)).
(3)

The corresponding lattice specific heat is given by

$$C(T)=3R\sum_{k}F_{k}\frac{x_{k}^{2}e^{x_{k}}}{(e^{x_{k}}-1)^{2}},$$
(4)

where x_(k)= ω_(k)/T. The weights F_(k), normalized to a total of one if
the specific heat is given per gram-atom, are found by a least-squares
fit of the measured specific heat. The number of modes is chosen to be
small enough so that the solution is

Figure 4: Lattice specific heat of ZrB₁₂ versus temperature up to 300 K.
The dashed lines show, from left to right, the ideal Debye specific heat
calculated for θ_(D)=270, 635, 865, and 1200 K. Inset: effective Debye
temperature versus temperature.

stable; in practice a good choice is ω_(k + 1)/ω_(k)= 1.75. Figure 5
shows the decomposition of the lattice specific heat into Einstein
contributions. The PDOS obtained in this way is shown in Fig. 6.
Qualitatively similar to that of LaB₆[31] it consists of a quasi-Debye
background with a high characteristic frequency, as expected in view of
the boron mass, superposed onto an optical mode with energy ∼15 meV,
presumably associated with the oscillations of the Zr atoms in the boron
"cages" present in the structure. The relative weight of the latter
mode, 5.3

### Resistivity and electron-phonon coupling

The resistivity (Fig. 7) is analyzed in a similar way. We start from the
generalized Bloch-Gruneisen formula (see, e.g., Ref. [16], in particular
pp. 212 and 219):

$$\rho(T)=\rho(0)+\frac{4\pi m}{ne^{2}}\int_{0}^{\omega_{\rm max}}\alpha_{\mu}^{ 2}F(\omega)\frac{xe^{x}}{(e^{x}-1)^{2}}d\omega,$$
(5)

where x= ω/T and α_(μ)²F(ω) is the electron-phonon "transport coupling
function." In the restricted Bloch-Gruneisen approach, one would have
α_(μ)²F(ω) ≈ ω⁴, and as a consequence ρ(T) − ρ(0) ≈ T⁵, but deviations
from the Debye model, complications with phonon polarizations, and
Umklapp processes would not justify this simplification beyond the
low-temperature continuum limit. Using a decomposition into Einstein
modes similar to Eq. (3),

α_(μ)²F(ω) = ∑_(k)α_(k)²F_(k)δ(ω − ω_(k)),
(6)

we obtain the discrete version of Eq. (5):

$$\rho(T)=\rho(0)+\frac{4\pi m}{ne^{2}}\sum_{k}\alpha_{k}^{2}F_{k}\frac{x_{k}e^{ x_{k}}}{(e^{x_{k}}-1)^{2}},$$
(7)

where the fitting parameters are the coefficients α_(k)²F_(k) and ρ(0).
Figure 8 shows the decomposition of the total resistivity into Einstein
components. In agreement with specific heat, the main component arises
from modes with energies near 15 meV. In the absence of information on
n/m, the amplitudes of α_(μ)²F(ω) shown in Fig. 6 are normalized
arbitrarily. Two independent runs performed with different sets of
contacts were analyzed separately; their results shown in Fig. 6
demonstrate the stability of the inversion at low energy.

The electron-phonon transport coupling function α_(μ)²F(ω) is closely
related to the function α²F(ω) which governs superconductivity.[17]
Compared to other modes, the ∼170 K region is weighted much more heavily
in the α_(μ)²F(ω) function than in the PDOS F(ω). T

Figure 5: Lattice specific heat divided by the cube of the temperature
showing the decomposition into Einstein terms. The main peak at ∼35 K is
associated with the Einstein mode at ω_(E)=170 K (15 meV).

Figure 6: Full line, closed symbols: phonon density of states F(ω)
obtained by inversion of the specific heat. Dashed lines, open symbols:
spectral electron-phonon transport coupling function α_(μ)²F(ω) obtained
by inversion of the resistivity, showing the results of two independent
runs.

Figure 7: Resistivity of ZrB₁₂ versus temperature. Main frame: zero
magnetic field. Inset: expanded low-temperature normal-state region in a
field of 1 T.

experiments showing the importance of the zirconium mass, these
observations suggest that most of the electron-phonon coupling arises
from the low-frequency vibration (∼15 meV) of loosely bound zirconium
atoms in their boron cages. It is interesting to compare this situation
with that of MgB₂. In the latter case, most of the coupling comes from
the E_(2g) mode having an energy of 700 to 900 K.[32] Remembering that
the phonon energy appears as a prefactor in T_(c) equations,[17] this
difference by a factor of 4 to 5 explains much of the difference between
T_(c) of ZrB₁₂ (6 K) and that of MgB₂ (39 K). The low dimensionality and
multiple gap structure of MgB₂ may be invoked to explain the rest. This
difference also explains why the resistivity of ZrB₁₂ behaves so
differently from that of MgB₂.[15]

Another remark confirms that the ∼15 meV mode rather than the whole
spectrum determines superconductivity in ZrB₁₂: Based on strong-coupling
corrections to the specific heat jump, we have found that the
characteristic energy of phonons which appears as a prefactor in Allen
and Dynes T_(c) equation[17] is
$\omega_{\rm{th}}$≡exp [∫ln ωα²F(ω)dω/ω/∫α²F(ω)dω/ω]≈14 meV. This is
close to the energy of the low-lying mode, and far from the uniformly
weighted logarithmic average exp [∫ln ωF(ω)dω/ω/∫F(ω)dω/ω]=42 meV.

The generalized Bloch-Gruneisen equation used here fits the measured
resistivity over the whole temperature range from 2 to 300 K, without
requiring any additional electron-electron scattering term ρ_(e − e)∝T².
Different conclusions were obtained in the literature by assuming that
the Debye temperature has a value between 270 and 300 K and remains
constant at least up to 25 K.[13, 14, 15] The latter assumption is
obviously not supported by specific-heat measurements (Fig. 4); the
initial Debye temperature is close to 1000 K and the continuum
approximation F(ω)∝ω² does not hold beyond 10 K. At 25 K the deviation
with respect to the initial C_(phonon)(T)∝T³ law is as high as 300

### Thermal expansivity and anharmonicity

Thermal-expansion experiments were undertaken to give three types of
information: (_i_) confirm the main features of the PDOS; (_ii_)
evaluate the volume dependence of phonon modes; and (_iii_) determine
the variation of T_(c) with pressure. The linear thermal expansivity
α(T) for a cubic system is given by

$$\alpha(T)=\frac{1}{L}\biggl{(}\frac{\partial L}{\partial T}\biggr{)}_{p}=\frac {\kappa_{T}}{3}\biggl{(}\frac{\partial S}{\partial V}\biggr{)}_{T},$$
(8)

where κ_(T) is the isothermal compressibility. The expansivity, which is
closely related to the lattice specific heat at constant volume via the
Gruneisen parameter γ_(G)= 3αV/κ_(T)C_(v), actually measures the PDOS
with a weighting γ_(G)(ω)≡−∂ln ω/∂ln V that represents anharmonicity.
Results of the experiments are shown in Fig. 9. The nearly linear
expansivity in the temperature range from 100 to 300 K is typical for a
high Debye temperature. Around 50 K a broad anomaly appears, which is an
indication for low-lying modes with a strong anharmonicity. A simple fit
is obtained using a contribution from an Einstein mode (T_(E)^(a)=170 K)
and another one from a Debye distribution (θ_(D)^(a)=1400 K), as shown
by the dotted and dashed lines, respectively. While T_(E)^(a) and
θ_(D)^(a) are consistent with the main features of the spectra
determined by specific heat and resistivity, the considerable weighting
of the T_(E)^(a) component in the expansivity evidences large volume
dependence for this mode. This is also apparent in the behavior of the
average Gruneisen parameter γ_(G)(T) (Fig. 10), evaluated assuming
κ_(T)^(a)=248 GPa by analogy with U₁₂.[33] The signature of the 15 meV
modes occurs near 35 K (=T_(E)^(a)/5) in this plot, as was the case for
θ_(D)(T). For a more quantitative analysis we performed a similar fit
for the thermal expansivity as for the specific heat based on a series
of Einstein functions using the same frequencies. Equation

Figure 8: Total resistivity divided by the temperature showing the
decomposition into Einstein terms and the residual term. The largest
Einstein component is centered on ω=170 K. Residuals R/R_(fit)=1 are
shown by crosses.

Figure 9: Linear thermal expansivity of ZrB₁₂ versus temperature. The
dotted and dashed lines show the decomposition into Einstein and Debye
components, respectively; the resulting fit is hidden by the data.
Inset: expanded view near the superconducting transition at 6 K.

(9) allows us to extract the Gruneisen parameters γ_(G_(k)) for each
phonon frequency separately (inset of Fig. 10):

$$\alpha(T)=\frac{3R\kappa_{T}}{3V}{\sum\limits_{k}{\gamma_{Ci}F_{k}}}\frac{{\gamma _{c}^{2}e^{\kappa_{k}}}}{{\left({e^{\kappa_{k}}-1}\right)^{2}}},$$
(9)

where the F_(k) are taken from Eq. (4). The 170 K mode is heavily
weighted with γ_(G_(k))=4.1, whereas the other modes are much less
anharmonic with γ_(G_(k)) values below 2. Similarly to MgB₂, the
anharmonic mode is the one that gives rise to a large electron-phonon
coupling.

The pressure dependence of T_(c) is obtained from the Ehrenfest relation

$$\Delta\alpha=\frac{1}{3V}\frac{\Delta C}{T_{c}}{\left({\frac{\partial T_{c}}{ \partial p}}\right)_{T}},$$
(10)

where Δ stands for discontinuities at the second-order transition. No
such discontinuity can be observed in α at 6 K within the experimental
scatter of ∼10⁻⁸ K⁻¹ (inset of Fig. 9). This sets an upper limit of 0.24
K GPa⁻¹ for the absolute value of the pressure dependence of T_(c). As
this value is rather small,[34] one can conclude that the cell volume of
ZrB₁₂ is close to its optimal value for superconductivity. This means
that the increase of phonon frequencies with pressure, which, taken
alone, should raise T_(c), is compensated by changes in the electronic
structure.

## Conclusion

Specific-heat, resistivity, and thermal-expansion experiments performed
on high-quality single crystals have been used to characterize ZrB₁₂
(Table 2). At variance with some published data, we find that this
superconductor, which has a low density of states at the Fermi level,
lies in the weak-coupling regime, as it shows all typical
characteristics of single-band, isotropic BCS superconductivity. The
apparent discrepancy between various estimations of the Debye
temperature is resolved by showing that the PDOS of ZrB₁₂ contains both
very high frequencies ∼100 meV and a high density of low-lying modes
near 15 meV. The comparative analysis of specific-heat, resistivity and
thermal-expansion data leads to the conclusion that the latter low-lying
modes, which are anharmonic and coupled to the electronic system, play
an important role in the superconductivity of ZrB₁₂. They are
tentatively associated with the vibration of zirconium atoms loosely
bound in the oversized cages formed by boron ions, a situation analogous
to that of LaB₆ described by Mandrus _et al.[31]_ One distinct
characteristics of ZrB₁₂ compared to MgB₂ is the low frequency of the
phonon modes which are coupled to electrons. We have shown that this
cannot be remedied by decreasing the cell volume. Substituting Zr by a
lighter element should favor higher T_(c). The unusual magnetic
properties of the superconducting state of ZrB₁₂ will be addressed in a
second paper.[19]

## Acknowledgments

Stimulating discussions with V. Gasparov, J. Kortus, I.R. Shein, J.
Teyssier, and T. Jarlborg are gratefully acknowledged; in particular V.
Gasparov attracted our attention to ZrB₁₂ and passed on samples. We
thank M. Schindl for expertise in EDX measurements, and A. Naula for
technical help. This work was supported by the Swiss National Science
Foundation through the National Centre of Competence in Research
"Materials with Novel Electronic Properties–MaNEP."

  ------------------------------------- --------------
  T_(c) (K)                               5.96±0.05
  RRR                                     9.33±0.03
  V (cm³ gat⁻¹)                              4.68
  M (g gat⁻¹)                                17.0
  γ_(n) (mJ K⁻² gat⁻¹)                    0.34±0.02
  ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c)                            1.66±0.1
  θ_(D)(0) (K)                              970±20
  H_(c)(0) (mT)                             41.5±1
  2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c)                         3.7±0.1
  γ_(n)T_(c)²/μ₀VH_(c)²(0)                 1.88±0.2
  χ (S.I.)                               −2.08 × 10⁻⁵
  $N_{\rm sh}(E_{\rm F})$ (eV cell)⁻¹        1.59
  ------------------------------------- --------------

Table 2: Characteristic parameters of ZrB₁₂. T_(c) superconducting
transition temperature; RRR, residual resistivity ratio; V and M, mean
atomic volume and mass, respectively; γ_(n) Sommerfeld constant;
ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c), normalized specific-heat jump at T_(c); Θ_(D)(0), Debye
temperature at T→0; H_(c)(0), thermodynamic critical field at T→0;
$2\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{c}$, normalized superconducting gap; χ,
normal-state magnetic susceptibility; $N_{\rm sh}(E_{\rm F})$, bare
density of states at the Fermi level (per 13-atom quarter-cell) (Ref.
[20]).

Figure 10: Grüneisen parameter of ZrB₁₂ versus temperature, assuming a
bulk modulus κ_(T)⁻¹=248 GPa. Inset: open diamonds, Grüneisen parameter
of each phonon modes obtained from the fit using Eq. (9); full circles,
the phonon density of states F(ω) as plotted in Fig. 6.

* [9] Corresponding author. E-mail address:
alain.junod@physics.unige.ch * [10] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T.
Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63
(2001). * [11] J. Akimitsu, in _Symposium on Transition Metal Oxides_,
Sendai, Japan, 10, January 2001. * [12] B. T. Matthias, T. H. Geballe,
K. Andres, E. Corenzwit, G. W. Hull, and J. P. Maita, Science **159**,
530 (1968). * [13] P. Donze, F. Heiniger, J. Muller, M. Peter, and P.
Spitzli, in _11th Int. Conf. on Low Temp. Phys. LT11_, St Andrews,
Scotland, 1968, Vol. 2, p. 1021. * [14] C. W. Chu and H. H. Hill,
Science **159**, 1227 (1968). * [15] Z. Fisk, A. C. Lawson, B. T.
Matthias, and E. Corenzwit, Phys. Lett. **37A**, 251 (1971). * [16] B.
Post and F. W. Glaser, J. Metals Trans. AIME, 631 (1952). * [17] C. H.
L. Kennard and L. Davis, J. Solid State Chem. **47**, 103 (1983). * [18]
Z. Fisk and B. T. Matthias, Science **165**, 279 (1969). * [19] Y. B.
Paderno, A. B. Liashchenko, V. B. Filippov, and A. V. Dukhnenko, in
_Proc. Int. Conf. on "Science for Materials in the Frontier of
Centuries: Advantages and Challenges" (IPMS NASU)_, Kiev 2002, p. 347. *
[20] D. Daghero, R. S. Gonnelli, G. A. Ummarino, A. Calzolari, V.
Dellarrocca, V. A. Stepanov, V. B. Filippov, and Y. B. Paderno,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **17**, S250 (2004). * [21] M. I. Tsindlekht,
G. I. Leviev, I. Asulin, A. Sharoni, O. Millo, I. Felner, Y. B. Paderno,
V. B. Filippov, and M. A. Belogolovskii, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 212508
(2004). * [22] V. A. Gasparov, N. S. Sidorov, I. I. Zver’kova, S. S.
Khassanov, and M. P. Kulakov, cond-mat/0411116. * [23] V. A. Gasparov,
N. S. Sidorov, M. P. Kulakov, I. I. Zver’kova, V. P. Kobyakov, H.-Y.
Zhai, H. M. Christen, M. P. Paranthaman, and D. H. Lowdes, in
_Superconductivity in Magnesium Diboride and Related Materials
(Boromag), Book of Abstracts_, Genova, Italy, 17-19 June 2002, p. 52. *
[24] V. A. Gasparov, M. P. Kulakov, N. S. Sidorov, I. I. Zver’kova, V.
B. Filippov, A. B. Lyashenko, and Y. B. Paderno, JETP Lett. **80**, 330
(2004). * [25] G. Grimvall, _The Electron-Phonon Interaction in Metals_
(North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1981). * [26] P. B. Allen and R. C. Dynes,
Phys. Rev. B **12**, 905 (1975). * [27] I. R. Shein and A. L.
Ivanovskii, Phys. Solid State **45**, 1429 (2003). * [28] Y. Wang, R.
Lortz, Y. B. Paderno, and A. Junod, cond-mat/ 0502036. * [29] I. R.
Shein, private communication (2004). * [30] A. Junod, in _Studies of
High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by A. Narlikar (Nova Science
Publishers, Commack, NY, 1996), Vol. 19, p. 1. * [31] C. Meingast, B.
Blank, H. Burkle, B. Obst, T. Wolf, H. Wuhl, V. Selvanamickam, and K.
Salama, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 11299 (1990). * [32] R. Pott and R.
Scheffzky, J. Phys. E **16**, 444 (1983). * [33] D. U. Gubser, Phys.
Rev. B **6**, 827 (1972). * [34] J. M. Daams and J. P. Carbotte, Solid
State Commun. **29**, 501 (1979). * [35] H. Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor,
and C. A. Shiffman, J. Low Temp. Phys. **12**, 387 (1973). * [36] J. P.
Carbotte, Rev. Mod. Phys. **62**, 1027 (1990). * [37] H. Chi and J. P.
Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 6143 (1994). * [38] Y. Paderno, A.
Liashchenko, V. Filippov, and A. Dukhnenko, in _Science for Materials,
the Frontier of Centuries Advantages and Challenges, Conf. Proc. IPMS
NASU_, edited by V. Skorokhod, Kiev, 2002, p. 404. * [39] E. S. R.
Gopal, _Specific Heats at Low Temperatures_ (Heywood Books, London,
1966). * [40] D. Mandrus, B. C. Sales, and R. Jin, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
012302 (2001). * [41] H. J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, M. L. Cohen, and S.
G. Louie, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 020513(R) (2002). * [42] J.-P. Dancausse,
E. Gering, S. Heathman, and U. Benedict, J. Alloys Compd. **189**, 205
(1992). * [43] As the compound is very hard, we also converted the
pressure dependence into a volume dependence, using the isothermal
compressibility of UB₁₂ mentioned in the text. We find a value of 0.6 K
per percent volume change as an upper limt.
