Low superfluid density and possible multigap superconductivity in the
Bi${}_{\bf 2}$-based layered superconductor
Bi${}_{\bf 4}$O${}_{\bf 4}$S₃

P. K. Biswas

A. Amato

C. Baines

R. Khasanov

H. Luetkens

Hechang Lei ($\frac{\pi}{\rm H}$)

C. Petrovic

Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science Department, Brookhaven
National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973-5000, USA

27 September 201327 September 201327 September 201327 September 201327
September 201327 September 201327 September 201327 September 2013

###### Abstract

The magnetic penetration depth λ as a function of temperature in Bi₄O₄S₃
was studied by muon-spin-spectroscopy measurements. The superfluid
density of Bi₄O₄S₃ is found to be very low. The dependence of λ⁻² on
temperature possibly suggests the existence of two s-wave-type energy
gaps with the zero-temperature values of 0.93 (3) and 0.09 (4) meV. The
upturn in the temperature dependence of the upper critical field close
to $T_{\rm c}$ further supports multigap superconductivity in Bi₄O₄S₃.
The presence of two superconducting energy gaps is consistent with
theoretical and other experimental studies. However, a single-gap s-wave
model fit with a gap of 0.88 (2) meV cannot be ruled out completely. The
value of λ(T) at T = 0 K is estimated to be λ(0) = 861 (17) nm, one of
the largest of all known layered superconductors, reflecting a very low
superfluid density.

pacs: 74.25.F-, 74.25.Ha, 76.75.+i Present address: ]Department of
Physics, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA The
sample was cooled from above $T_{\rm c}$ to base temperature at H = 0
during ZF-μSR measurements and in a field of 300 Oe in TF-μSR
measurements. The typical counting statistics were ∼20 million muon
decays per data point. The ZF- and TF-μSR data were analyzed using the
free software package Muskrit.[18]

The ac resistivity of Bi₄O₄S₃ was measured as a function of temperature
using a standard four-probe method in a physical property measurement
system (PPMS). Figure 1(a) shows the temperature dependence of the
resistivity ρ(T). A metallic-like behavior is observed between 5 to 220
K with a relatively high residual resistivity value of 2 mΩ cm. The
transition to the superconducting state is relatively sharp with a
$T_{\rm c}$ (onset) of 4.8 (1) K and $T_{\rm c}$ (zero) of 4.6 (1) K.
The inset shows the temperature variation of the resistivity in a set of
magnetic fields from 0 to 40 kOe. ρ(T) exhibits positive
magnetoresistance (MR) in the normal state (just above $T_{\rm c}$). At
6 K, the value of MR increases by 10.6

$$H_{\rm c2}(T)=H_{\rm c2}(0)\left\{1-\left(\frac{T}{T_{\rm c}}\right)^{3/2} \right\}^{3/2}.$$
(1)

The fit yields $H_{\rm c2}(0)=15.3$ (4) kOe, which implies a Ginzburg
coherence length ξ ≈ 12 nm. To get a better estimation of
$H_{\rm c2}(T)$ close to $T_{\rm c}$, an empirical interpolation [shown
as a dotted line in Fig. 1(b)] was later used in Eq. (4) for calculating
the temperature dependence of the penetration depth of Bi₄O₄S₃.

ZF-μSR measurements were performed to look for any unusual
temperature-dependent relaxation processes, which may be associated with
the onset of superconductivity. Figure 2 shows the ZF-μSR time spectra
of Bi₄O₄S₃, collected below (at 2 K) and above (at 6 K) $T_{\rm c}$.
Practically no difference between the two data sets is observable. The
ZF data can be described using a Kubo-Toyabe relaxation function[25]
multiplied by an exponential decay function:

$$A(t)=A(0)\left\{\frac{1}{3}+\frac{2}{3}\left(1-a^{2}t^{2}\right)\exp\left(- \frac{a^{2}t^{2}}{2}\right)\right\}\exp(-\Lambda t),$$
(2)

where A(0) is the initial asymmetry, and a and Λ are muon spin
relaxation rates. In the fit, a was kept as a common parameter for both
sets of data. The fits yield a = 0.100 (2)μs⁻¹, Λ(2K) = 0.025 (2)μs⁻¹,
and Λ(6K) = 0.026 (2)μs⁻¹. The value of a extracted from the fits
reflects the presence of random local fields arising from the nuclear
moments within Bi₄O₄S₃. The nearly equal values of Λ are consistent with

Figure 2: (Color online) ZF-μSR time spectra collected at 2 and 6 K for
Bi₄O₄S₃. The solid lines are the fits to the data using the Eq. (2),
described in the text.

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the ac
resistivity of Bi₄O₄S₃. Inset shows the temperature variation of the
resistivity in a set of magnetic fields of 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 1, 2,
4, 6, 8, 10, 15, 20, 30, and 40 kOe. (b) Temperature dependence of the
upper critical field of Bi₄O₄S₃. The solid line is a fit to the data
using an expression for charged bosons. The dotted line is an empirical
interpolation, which better reproduces the temperature region close to
$T_{\rm c}$.

the presence of diluted and randomly oriented electronic moments
probably arising from impurities. The ZF-μSR data completely rule out
the presence of any magnetic anomaly in the superconducting state of
Bi₄O₄S₃ such as, for instance, the appearance of spontaneous magnetic
fields associated with a time-reversal-symmetry breaking pairing state.

Figure 3 shows the TF-μSR time spectra collected at 19 mK and 5 K in a
transverse field of 300 Oe. At 5 K, the sample is in the normal state
and the local field probed by the muons is the applied field slightly
broadened by the nuclear moments contribution, which is responsible for
the weak relaxation of the precession signal. By contrast, the data
collected at 19 mK shows a more pronounced damping due to the
inhomogeneous field distribution generated by the formation of a vortex
lattice in Bi₄O₄S₃. The TF-μSR time spectra were analyzed using Gaussian
damped spin precession signal along with an exponential relaxation to
take into account the corresponding component observed in the ZF
spectra:

A^(TF)(t) = A(0)exp (−σ²t²/2)cos (γ_(μ)(B)t + ϕ)exp (−Λ₁t)
(3)
$$+A_{\rm bg}(0)\cos(\gamma_{\mu}B_{\rm bg}t+\phi),$$

where A(0) and $A_{\rm bg}(0)$ are the initial asymmetries of the sample
and background signals, γ_(μ)/(2π) = 13.55 kHz/G is the muon
gyromagnetic ratio,[26]⟨B⟩ and $B_{\rm bg}$ are the internal and
background magnetic fields, ϕ is the initial phase of the muon
precession signal, and σ and Λ₁ are the Gaussian and exponential
muon-spin relaxation rates, respectively. Since the ZF data indicate
that the exponential relaxation rate is temperature independent, we use
Λ₁ as a global common parameter in the TF-μSR data fitting and obtain a
value of 0.038 (3) μs⁻¹. The background signal mainly comes from the
silver sample holder where the relaxation rate is negligible.

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of σ for an applied field of
300 Oe. The Gaussian muon spin relaxation rate σ is proportional to the
second moment of the internal field distribution sensed by the muons and
can be expressed as
$\sigma=(\sigma_{\rm sc}^{2}+\sigma_{\rm nm}^{2})^{\frac{1}{2}}$, where
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ is the contribution due to the inhomogeneous field
distribution in the vortex state and $\sigma_{\rm nm}=0.043\,(1)\mu$s⁻¹
is the nuclear magnetic dipolar contribution which is assumed to be
temperature independent.

For a superconductor with hexagonal vortex lattice, $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ is
related to the penetration depth, λ by the Brandt equation,[27] which is
based on a Ginzburg-Landau treatment of the vortex state,

$$\sigma_{\rm sc}(b)\;[\mu\mbox{s}^{-1}] = (4.854\times 10^{4})(1-b)$$
(4)
$$\times[1+1.21(1-\sqrt{b})^{3}]\lambda^{-2}\;[\mbox{nm}^{-2}].$$

Here b = ⟨B⟩/B_(c2) is a reduced magnetic field and ⟨B⟩ is the first
moment of the field distribution, which in our case is very close to the
applied field. Equation (4) was used to calculate λ⁻²(T), which is
proportional to the superfluid density. Figure 5 shows the temperature
dependence of λ⁻² for Bi₄O₄S₃. The fits to the λ⁻²(T) data were then
made with a single- and a two-gap s-wave model using the following
functional form:[28, 29]

$$\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T)}{\lambda^{-2}(0)}=\omega\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{1} (0))}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{1}(0))}+(1-\omega)\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{2 }(0))}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{2}(0))},$$
(5)

where λ(0) is the value of the penetration depth at T = 0 K, Δ_(i)(0) is
the value of the ith (i = 1 or 2) superconducting gap at T = 0 K and ω
is the weighting factor of the first gap.

Figure 4: (Color online) The temperature dependence of σ of Bi₄O₄S₃ for
an applied field of 300 Oe. The dotted line parallel to the temperature
axis shows the temperature-independent value of $\sigma_{\rm nm}$: the
nuclear magnetic dipolar contribution to σ.

Figure 3: (Color online) TF-μSR time spectra of Bi₄O₄S₃ collected at 19
mK and 5 K in a transverse field of 300 Oe. The solid lines are the fits
to the data using the Eq. (3), described in the text.

Each component of Eq. (5) can be expressed within the local London
approximation (λ ≫ ξ) [30, 31] as

$$\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{\rm i}(0))}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{\rm i}(0))}=1+2 \int_{\Delta_{\rm i}(0)}^{\infty}\left(\frac{\partial f}{\partial E}\right)\frac {EdE}{\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta_{\rm i}(T)^{2}}},$$
(6)

where f = [1 + exp (E/k_(B)T)]⁻¹ is the Fermi function, and
$\Delta_{\rm i}(T)=\Delta_{\rm i}(0)\delta(T/T_{\rm c})$. The
temperature dependence of the gap is approximated by the expression
$\delta(T/T_{\rm c})=\tanh[1.82[1.018(T_{\rm c}/T-1)]^{0.51}]$[28].

The curves shown in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b) are the fits to the λ⁻²(T) data
using the two models. Table 1 summarizes the corresponding fitted
parameters. The two-s-wave-gap model gives a lower
$\chi^{2}_{\rm reduced}$ value than a single-gap model thus suggesting
that Bi₄O₄S₃ is a multigap superconductor and making a connection
between BiS₂-based layered superconductors and the layered Fe-based
superconductors [17, 32, 33, 34]. Other prominent examples of multigap
superconductivity are represented by MgB₂, NbSe₂, and Lu₂Fe₃Si₃[35, 36,
37, 38]. However, a single s-wave gap cannot be ruled out completely as
claimed in Ref. [14].

From our data, we obtain λ(0) = 861 (17) nm. Remarkable is that the
value of lambda at T = 0 K is one of the highest among all known bulk
superconductors. This reflects a very low superfluid carrier density
n_(s) of ≈3 × 10²¹ cm⁻³. It should be noted that the value of λ(0) is
independent of details of analysis such as the correction for the field
dependence of σ and it is not strongly dependent on the assumption of a
vortex lattice of hexagonal symmetry. The assumption of a regular vortex
structure is generally valid in the FC case if parameters such as the
external field are chosen in a reasonable range and if the system is not
extremely anisotropic. Having hexagonal or rectangular symmetry makes
almost no difference in the value of the penetration depth and its
temperature dependence. For instance, for a square arrangement, the
prefactor of Eq. (4) would change only by 2

In summary, resistivity and μSR measurements have been performed on
superconducting Bi₄O₄S₃. Temperature dependence of the upper critical
fields and also the absolute value, $H_{\rm c2}(0)=15.3\,(4)$ kOe were
determined from the resistivity measurements. The $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ data
shows a positive curvature close to $T_{\rm c}$, which is a sign of
multigap superconductivity in Bi₄O₄S₃. ZF-μSR data show no sign of
magnetic anomaly in the superconducting ground state of Bi₄O₄S₃. The
temperature dependence of λ⁻² is compatible with a two-gap s-wave model
with the zero-temperature gap values, $\Delta_{\rm i}(0)=0.93\,(3)$,
$\Delta_{\rm i}(0)=0.09\,(4)$ meV and penetration depth, λ(0) = 861 (17)
nm. The presence of two superconducting gaps in Bi₄O₄S₃ is predicted by
theoretical works such as first-principles band-structure calculations
suggesting two bands crossing the Fermi surface and the RPA analysis of
a two-orbital model for the BiS₂-based superconductors [10, 11]. Hall
and Seebeck coefficients and magnetoresistance measurements also further
support our experimental finding [13, 15]. It is worth mentioning that
even though our data are more compatible with a two-gap model, a
single-gap model cannot be ruled out completely. Our results show that
Bi₄O₄S₃ is a bulk superconductor with a fully developed nodeless
superconducting energy gap and extremely low superfluid density compared
to other layered superconductors.

The μSR experiments were performed at the Swiss Muon Source (SμS), Paul
Scherrer Institute (PSI, Switzerland). Work at Brookhaven is supported
by the Center for Emergent Superconductivity, an Energy Frontier
Research Center funded by the DOE Office for Basic Energy Science (H.L.
and C.P.). P.K.B. would like to acknowledge M. Medarde and R. Sibille
for their assistance in the transport measurements.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of λ⁻² for Bi₄O₄S₃. The
curves are fits to the data using a (a) single- and (b) a two-gap s-wave
model.

* [1] "Corresponding author: pabitra.biswas@psi.ch * [2] Present
address: Frontier Research Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259
Nagatsuta, Midori, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan. * [3] "Corresponding
author: elvezio.morenzoni@psi.ch * [4] Y. Mizuguchi, H. Fujihisa, Y.
Gotoh, K. Suzuki, H. Usui, K. Kuroki, S. Demura, Y. Takano, H. Izawa,
and O. Miura, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 220510(R) (2012). * [5] S. K. Singh,
A. Kumar, B. Gahtori Shruti, G. Sharma, S. Patnaik, and V. P. S. Awana,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. **134**, 16504 (2012). * [6] J. G. Bednorz and K. A.
Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). * [7] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe,
M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [8]
F.-C. Hsu, J.-Y. Luo, K.-W. Yeh, T.-K. Chen, T.-W. Huang, P. M. Wu,
Y.-C. Lee, Y.-L. Huang, Y.-Y. Chu, D.-C. Yan, and M.-K. Wu, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. U. S. A. **105**, 14262 (2008). * [9] Y. Mizuguchi, S.
Demura, K. Deguchi, Y. Takano, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, H. Izawa, and O.
Miura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 114725 (2012). * [10] J. Xing, S. Li,
X. Ding, H. Yang, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 214518 (2012). *
[11] R. Jha, A. Kumar, S. K. Singh, and V. P. S. Awana, J. Supercond.
Novel Magn. **26**, 499 (2013). * [12] S. Demura, Y. Mizuguchi, K.
Deguchi, H. Okazaki, H. Hara, T. Watanabe, S. J. Denholme, M. Fujioka,
T. Ozaki, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, O. Miura, T. Yamaguchi, H. Takeya, and
Y. Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 033708 (2013). * [13] H. Usui, K.
Suzuki, and K. Kuroki, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 220501(R) (2012). * [14] G.
B. Martins, A. Moreo, and E. Dagotto, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 081102(R)
(2013). * [15] H. Kotegawa, Y. Tomita, H. Tou, H. Izawa, Y. Mizuguchi,
O. Miura, S. Demura, K. Deguchi, and Y. Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**81**, 103702 (2012). * [16] S. G. Tan, P. Tong, Y. Liu, W. J. Lu, L.
J. Li, B. C. Zhao, and Y. P. Sun, Eur. Phys. J. B **85**, 414 (2012). *
[17] Shruti, P. Srivastava, and S. Patnaik, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**25**, 339601 (2013). * [18] S. Li, H. Yang, J. Tao, X. Ding, and H.-H.
Wen, Sci. China: Phys., Mech. Astron. **56**, 2019 (2013). * [19] C.
Sathish, H. L. Feng, Y. Shi, and K. Yamaura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**,
074703 (2013). * [20] P. K. Biswas, A. Krzton-Maziopa, R. Khasanov, H.
Luetkens, E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, and A. Amato, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**110**, 137003 (2013). * [21] A. Suter and B. M. Wojek, Phys. Procedia
**30**, 69 (2012). * [22] S. V. Shulga, S.-L. Drechsler, G. Fuchs, K.-H.
Muller, K. Winzer, M. Heinecke, and K. Krug, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**,
1730 (1998). * [23] I. Shigeta, T. Abiru, K. Abe, A. Nishida, and Y.
Matsumoto, Physica C **392-396**, 359 (2003). * [24] Y. Takano, H.
Takeya, H. Fujii, H. Kumakura, T. Hatano, K. Togano, H. Kito, and H.
Ihara, Appl. Phys. Lett. **78**, 2914 (2001). * [25] A. B. Karki, Y. M.
Xiong, N. Haldolaarachchige, S. Stadler, I. Vekhter, P. W. Adams, D. P.
Young, W. A. Phelan, and J. Y. Chan, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 144525
(2011). * [26] P. K. Biswas, M. R. Lees, A. D. Hillier, R. I. Smith, W.
G. Marshall, and D. McK. Paul, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 184529 (2011). *
[27] R. Micnas, J. Ranninger, and S. Robaszkiewicz, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**62**, 113 (1990). * [28] R. Kubo, Hyperfine Interact. **8**, 731
(1981). * [29] J. E. Sonier, J. H. Brewer, and R. F. Kieff, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **72**, 769 (2000). * [30] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B **68**,
054506 (2003). * [31] A. Carrington and F. Manzano, Phys. C **385**, 205
(2003). * [32] H. Padamsee, and J. E. Neighbor, and C. A. Shiffman, J.
Low Temp. Phys. **12**, 387 (1973). * [33] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [34] R. Prozorov and
R. W. Giannetta, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **19**, R41 (2006). * [35] R.
Khasanov, K. Conder, E. Pomjakushina, A. Amato, C. Baines, Z. Bukowski,
J. Karpinski, S. Katrych, H.-H. Klauss, H. Luetkens, A. Shengelaya, and
N. D. Zhigadlo, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 220510(R) (2008). * [36] P. K.
Biswas, G. Balakrishnan, D. McK. Paul, C. V. Tomy, M. R. Lees, and A. D.
Hillier, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 092510 (2010). * [37] J. Paglione and R.
L. Greene, Nat. Phys. **6**, 645 (2010). * [38] H. J. Choi, D. Roundy,
H. Sun, M. L. Cohen, and S. G. Louie, Nature (London) **418**, 758
(2002), and references therein. * [39] T. Yokoya, T. Kiss, A. Chainani,
S. Shin, M. Nohara, and H. Takagi, Science **294**, 2518 (2001). * [40]
Y. Nakajima, T. Nakagawa, T. Tamegai, and H. Harima, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**100**, 157001 (2008). * [41] P. K. Biswas, G. Balakrishnan, D. McK.
Paul, M. R. Lees, and A. D. Hillier, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 054517
(2011). * [42] T. J. Williams _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 094501
(2009). * [43] O. Ofer _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 060506(R) (2012).
