# Thermal conductivity of MgB₂ in the superconducting state

M. Putti,* V. Braccini, E. Galleani d’Agliano, F. Napoli, I. Pallecchi,
and A. S. Siri

INFM-LAMIA/CNR, Dipartimento di Fisica, Via Dodecaneso 33, 16146 Genova,
Italy

P. Manfrinetti and A. Palenzona

INFM, Dipartimento di Chimica e Chimica Industriale, Via Dodecaneso 31,
16146 Genova, Italy

Received 8 October 2002; published 25 February 2003

###### Abstract

We present thermal conductivity measurements on very pure and dense bulk
samples, as indicated by residual resistivity values as low as 0.5 μΩ cm
and thermal conductivity values higher than 200 W/mK. In the normal
state we found that the Wiedemann-Franz law, in its generalized form,
works well suggesting that phonons do not contribute to the heat
transport. The thermal conductivity in the superconducting state has
been analyzed by using a two-gap model. Thanks to the large gap
anisotropy we were able to evaluate quantitatively intraband scattering
relaxation times of π and σ bands, which depend on the disorder in
different way; namely, as the disorder increases, it reduces more
effectively the relaxation times of π than that of σ bands, as suggested
by a recent calculation [Mazin _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 107002
(2002)].

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.67.064505

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of MgB₂,[2] experimental findings established a
phonon mediated s-wave superconductivity. Despite its standard origin,
superconductivity in MgB₂ showed several unusual properties that can be
ascribed to the presence of two gaps with different amplitudes
emphasized by tunneling and specific heat measurements. Theoretical
studies [3; 4; 5] pointed out that the peculiar electronic structure is
the origin of this behavior being the larger gap, Δ_(σ), associated with
σ bands and the smaller one, Δ_(π), associated with π bands. The two-gap
model offers a simple explanation of several anomalies in the
superconducting state.[6; 7; 8] The π and σ bands have different
dimensionality, π bands being nearly isotropic, and σ bands
two-dimensional, which determines the anisotropy of physical properties.
Multiband effects due to the different parity of σ and π bands were
predicted in the normal state, too,[1] and, recently, have found
confirmation in transport measurements.[9] Since interband impurity
scattering turns out to be negligible, different bands behave as
separate conduction channels in parallel and either σ or π channel
prevails, depending on the disorder degree, being the clean (dirty)
samples dominated by π (σ) conduction.

In this paper we present thermal conductivity measurements on bulk
samples and we perform a quantitative analysis in the superconducting
state to investigate the role of σ and π bands depending on the sample
purity.

Thermal conductivity κ in the superconducting state among the other
transport properties gives information on quasi-particle (QP)
excitations and their dynamics with the advantage of probing only the QP
response, since the superfluid does not carry heat. On the other hand, a
major complication in the analysis of the thermal conductivity is often
a substantial phonon contribution to the heat current. Consequently, the
interpretation of experimental data can be ambiguous.

From a basic point of view, QP condensation below T_(c) causes a
decrease of the electron contribution to the thermal conductivity,
$\kappa_{\rm el}$, and an increase of the phonon contribution,
$\kappa_{\rm ph}$; thus κ below T_(c) can show a shoulder or a peak
depending on whether the heat current is dominated by electrons or
phonons, and a more complex behavior is exhibited when both
contributions are important.

From the beginning the thermal conductivity of MgB₂ showed the
unexpected feature of not exhibiting any signature of the
superconducting transition.[10; 11; 12; 13] This "anomaly" was initially
ascribed to a perfect compensation of $\kappa_{\rm el}$ and
$\kappa_{\rm ph}$ (Ref. [11]) or to the presence of large thermal
resistance at the grain boundaries.[12] As a matter of fact, the
discovery that MgB₂ presents two gaps, one of which Δ_(π) is so small
that QP condensation becomes exponential only below a reduced
temperature of the order of t = T/T_(c) ∼ 0.2, opened new perspectives
in the interpretation of thermal conductivity data. Hence, the two gap
model successfully used to fit specific heat data[6] can also be applied
to the thermal conductivity to estimate the fraction of energy carried
by the two bands, providing a useful means to investigate multiband
effects.

## II Experimental details

Dense (up to 2.4 g/cm³, 90

Two specimens were prepared for physical measurements: one from
crystalline boron (-325 mesh, Alfa Aesar) (MGB-1S), one by using
enriched crystalline ¹¹B (-325 mesh, Eagle Picher) (MGB11-1S). The
samples were cut in the shape of parallelepiped bar (1 × 2 − 3 × 12
mm³).

The thermal conductivity was measured using a steady state flux method
with a heat flux sinusoidally modulated at low frequency (ν = 0.003 -
0.01 Hz). Under these conditions the thermal conductivity is extracted
as κ = J(ν)/∇T(ν), where J(ν) is the heat flow provided at the frequency
ν and ∇T(ν) is the temperature gradient oscillating at the frequency ν.
A small resistive heater (1×1 mm²) is glued by GE varnish on the top end
of the bar, being the bottom of the bar thermally connected with the
sample holder. In such way a longitudinal heat flow is assured. The
gradient applied to the sample was varied from 0.1 to 0.3 K/cm. Seebeck
effect was measured simultaneously with the thermal conductivity
providing a precise determination of the critical temperature.

## III Results and discussions

Resistivity measurements of the samples from 30 to 300 K are shown in
Fig. 2.

In Table 1 we report $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$, the amplitude of the
transition ΔT_(c), ρ(40 K) and the residual resistivity ratio defined as
RRR = ρ(300 K)/ρ(40 K) for the two samples. The excellent quality of the
samples is proved by the high T_(c) values (38.7, 38.9 K), the small
ΔT_(c) values (0.2, 0.3 K), the low values of ρ(40 K) (0.6, 2.1 μΩ cm),
and the large values of RRR (15, 7). Between the two samples the
enriched ¹¹B (MGB11-1S) has the lower resistivity values which can
mainly be ascribed to the very good quality of the Eagle-Picher enriched
¹¹B.[16]

Thermal conductivity measurements of the two samples from 4 to 250 K are
shown in Fig. 3. The outstanding quality and high density of the samples
is evident from thermal transport properties as well. Indeed, these
samples have more than one order of magnitude higher thermal
conductivities than sintered samples.[10, 11, 12] In particular MGB11-1S
exhibits a thermal conductivity as large as 215 W/mK at 65 K, which is
nearly two times higher than those of a single crystal,[13] proving the
excellent purity and density of this sample.

The thermal conductivity of MGB11-1S increases monotonically in the
superconducting state, a change of slope is observable at about 8 K,
while no signature of the superconducting transition is present; the
normal state curve exhibits a pronounced maximum at about 70 K. Similar
behavior is presented by MGB-1S even if only data above 10 K are
available.

The normal state behavior of both samples is typical of a good metal in
which the electron contribution to heat transport prevails. In order to
estimate the relative weight of $\kappa_{\rm ef}$ and $\kappa_{\rm ph}$
we can consider the effective Lorenz number defined as
${\cal L}_{\rm eff}$= κρ/T. This quantity is assumed equal to
${\cal L}_{0}$= 2.45 × 10⁻⁸ WΩ K⁻² by the Wiedemann-Franz law (WFL); in
good metals ${\cal L}_{\rm eff}$ is equal to ${\cal L}_{0}$ at low
temperature where the

Figure 3: Thermal conductivity measurements of the samples from 10 to
250 K: the best fitting curves obtained with the parameter values listed
in Table 2 are reported as continuous lines.

Figure 2: Resistivity measurements from 40 to 300 K.

  Sample      $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ K   ΔT_(c) K   ρ(40 K)μΩ cm   RRR
  ---------- --------------------------- ---------- -------------- ------
  MGB11-1S              38.7                0.2          0.58       15.3
  MGB-1S                38.9                0.3          2.1        7.1

Table 1: Critical temperature $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$, amplitude of the
transition ΔT_(c), ρ(40 K) and residual resistivity ratio defined as RRR
= ρ(300 K)/ρ(40 K).

electron impurity scattering prevails, then it decreases showing a
minimum at about one-tenth the Debye temperature Θ_(D) , deeper and
deeper with increasing sample purity; [17] in dilute alloys where
$\kappa_{\rm ph}$ is not at all negligible $\mathcal{L}_{\rm eff}$
becomes larger than ℒ₀ and the ratio
$\mathcal{L}_{\rm eff}/\mathcal{L}_{0}$ = (1 +
$\kappa_{\rm ph}/\kappa_{\rm el}$) gives information on the relative
weight of $\kappa_{\rm cl}$ and $\kappa_{\rm ph}$. [18] In Fig. 4 we
plot $\mathcal{L}_{\rm eff}/\mathcal{L}_{0}$ for the two samples from 40
to 250 K. The curves exhibit the typical behavior of good metals with
slightly different levels of purity: at low temperatures the curves
approach ℒ₀ from below; they show a minimum at around 130 K ∼ 0.1Θ_(D)
(considering that in MgB₂Θ_(D)∼ 1000 K–Refs. [19; 20]), which is more
pronounced for MGB11-1S; finally, the curves increase toward ℒ₀. Thus,
we can conclude that in the normal state the WFL substantially works and
$\kappa_{\rm ph}$ can be neglected. Similar results were obtained also
in sintered sample with low thermal conductivity, [9] while different
conclusions have been drawn on a single crystal, [13] where a violation
of the WFL was claimed. Actually, in a small sample with not well
defined geometrical shape as a single crystal the geometrical factor
which relates conductivity to conductance can be different in thermal
and electrical measurement, giving an incorrect evaluation of the Lorenz
number. In large bar cut specimens the geometrical factors can be
estimated with better precision and more reliable verification of the
WFL can be made.

In the superconducting state, since $\kappa_{\rm ph}$ decreases as
(T/Θ_(D))³, we can assume that the thermal conductivity is dominated by
electrons as well. In the superconducting state, due to QP condensation
which decreases $\kappa_{\rm el}$ and enhances $\kappa_{\rm ph}$, their
relative weight can change. However, in MgB₂, there is much evidence of
the anomalous presence of π-band QP over a wide temperature range below
T_(c). [6, 13] Hence, we assume that lattice vibrations give negligible
contribution to the thermal transport in the temperature region of our
interest and in the following we analyze the thermal conductivity data
in term of the electron contribution only.

The electron thermal conductivity in the superconducting state
$\kappa_{\rm el}^{s}$ can be written as

$$\kappa_{\rm el}^{s}(T)=\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)g(t,\alpha),$$
(1)

where $\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)$ is the electron thermal conductivity in
the normal state and g(t, α), for a given reduced gap, α=Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c)
, and reduced temperature, t = T/T_(c) , takes into account the QP
condensation. The function g(t, α) was calculated in the framework of
the BCS theory for dominant scattering of the electrons with the
impurities, [21] or with the phonons [21, 22] reproducing very well
thermal conductivity in the low temperature superconductors. To analyze
experimental data using Eq. (1) two main problems have to be solved.
First, Eq. (1) has to be generalized to multiband conduction; second,
$\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)$ has to be estimated. We start from the latter
issue.

At low temperature, if the scattering with impurities dominates, one can
write:

$${\cal W}_{\rm el}\!\!\simeq\!{\cal W}_{\rm el}^{\rm im}\!+\!{\cal W}_{\rm el} ^{\rm ph},$$
(2)

where the thermal resistance ${\cal W}_{\rm el}\!\!=\!1/\kappa_{\rm el}$
is the sum of the thermal resistivity for scattering with impurities,
${\cal W}_{\rm el}^{\rm im}$, and for scattering with phonons,
${\cal W}_{\rm el}^{\rm ph}$; i.e., one can assume approximate validity
of Matthiessen’s rule. The first term in Eq. (2) is given by

$${\cal W}_{\rm el}^{\rm im}\!=\!\frac{\rho_{0}}{T\mathcal{L}_{0}}$$
(3)

with ρ₀⁻¹ = ρ_(0, π)⁻¹ + ρ_(0, σ)⁻¹ being the two-band residual
resistivity given by the parallel of residual resistivity of π band,
ρ_(0, π), and σ band, ρ_(0, σ). The second term, following Ref. [17], is
given in a single-band case by

$${\cal W}_{\rm el}^{\rm ph}\!=\!A\!\left(\frac{\Theta_{D}}{T}\right)^{2}\!\frac {\rho_{\rm ph}(T)}{T\mathcal{L}_{0}},$$
(4)

where

$$\rho_{\rm ph}(T)\!=\!B\!\left(\frac{T}{\Theta_{D}}\right)^{5}\!\int_{0}^{ \Theta_{D}/T}\!\mathrm{d}x\,\frac{x^{5}}{(e^{x}\!-\!1)(1\!-\!e^{-x})}.$$

A and B are constants and in our case one should replace their product
A ⋅ B with an appropriate average over the two bands which we call C. So
we write:

$${\cal W}_{\rm el}^{\rm ph}\!=\!C\!\left(\frac{\Theta_{D}}{T}\right)^{3}\!\frac {1}{T\mathcal{L}_{0}}\!\int_{0}^{\Theta_{D}/T}\!\mathrm{d}x\frac{x^{5}}{(e^{x }\!-\!1)(1\!-\!e^{-x})}$$

Despite its simplicity, this model describes very well the normal state
thermal conductivity of samples with very different degrees of disorder,
with reasonable parameter values; [9] it contains the right features,
vanishing to zero at low temperature linearly with T and requiring only
three free parameters (ρ₀, Θ_(D), and C) whose reliability can be
checked by resistivity . The best fitting procedure is performed from 40
to 200 K and the curves obtained with the parameter values listed in
Table 2 are reported in Fig. 3 as continuous lines.

The theoretical curves fit the experimental data in the normal state in
excellent way, while just below T_(c) , they lay above the data,
decreasing linearly with temperature, where the experimental data start
to decrease with larger slopes, due to the QP condensation. In Table 2
we can see that the Θ_(D) and C values, which determine the intrinsic
term, are nearly the same for both the samples, while the ρ₀ values
change by a factor 4, as consequence of the different purity of the two
samples; moreover we can see that the ρ₀ values are slightly lower than
ρ(40 K) reported in Table 1. Anyway, ρ₀, Θ_(D), and C values are in fair
agreement with those obtained by fitting resistivity measurements.[9]

Now we address the problem of generalizing Eq. (1) in the case of
multiband conduction. Following the approach used for the specific
heat,[6] we can write:

$$\frac{\kappa_{\rm el}^{s}(T)}{\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)} = xg(t,\alpha_{\pi}) + (1 - x)g(t,\alpha_{\sigma}),$$

where α_(π) = Δ_(π)(0)/k_(B)T_(c) and α_(σ) = Δ_(σ)(0)/k_(B)T_(c); the
relative weights x and (1 − x) that in Ref. [6] are related to the
energy which condenses in each band, in our case rather represent the
average energy fractions carried by the π and σ bands respectively; our
samples being poly-crystalline, the relative weights take into account
the mobility of the carriers in each band averaged in the three
directions.

Denoting with $\kappa_{\pi}^{n}(T) = x\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)$ and
$\kappa_{\sigma}^{n}(T) = (1 - x)\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)$ the π and σ
bands thermal conductivity in the normal state, Eq. (5) states that the
π and σ bands conduction occurs in parallel, as suggested by Ref. [1].

Once a suitable g function is considered Eq. (5) allows to fit the
thermal conductivity data in the superconducting state with x, α_(π),
and α_(σ) as free parameters. To describe σ and π QP we choose the g
function for electron-impurity scattering[21] in agreement with the fact
that, below 40 K, $\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)$ is dominated by the
scattering with impurities. In Fig. 5 we show κ/T in the superconducting
state for the two samples. The continuous line represents
$\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)/T$, the dashed line represents
$\kappa_{\rm el}^{s}(T)/T$ given by Eq. (5). The parameters obtained
with the best fit procedure are summarized also in Table 2. We can see
that the two-gap model provides an excellent agreement with the
experimental data. We find α_(π) = 0.57 (or 0.6) and α_(σ) = 2.17 (or
1.9) for MGB11-1S (or MGB-1S); these values, which correspond to
Δ_(σ)(0) = 1.9 (or 2.0) meV and Δ_(σ)(0) = 7.2 (or 6.3) meV, are in
agreement with those found by specific heat data α_(π) ∼ 0.6− 0.65 and
α_(σ) ∼ 1.9 − 2.2. For the x parameter we find 0.85 and 0.75 for
MGB11-1S and MGB-1S, respectively. From the specific heat analysis it
comes out that the energy fraction which condenses in each band is
roughly the same; thus our results imply that carriers in π bands are
more mobile than in σ bands. Our result is in apparent contradiction
with that of Ref. [13] which concluded that the mobilities in the π and
σ bands are almost equal. Nevertheless, Ref. [13] discussed the
conduction within the boron planes, whereas we measure the conduction
averaged over all directions; the latter is clearly lower for σ bands
because of their two-dimensional nature.

The lacking signature of superconducting transition in thermal
conductivity, naturally follows from the two-gap model; in fact, we find
that the main contribution to heat transport comes from carriers in π
bands whose strong condensation starts for α_(π)/t ≫ 1 which means
t < 0.2. In MGB11-1S data a change of slope occurs at about 8 K which in
this framework represents the π QP condensation; in fact in Fig. 5 we
can see that below 10 K the σ band contribution to
$\kappa_{\rm el}^{s}(T)/T$ is negligible, and the only π band
contribution fits the experimental curve; from 10 K to 40 K also the
σ-band contribution is necessary to fit the data.

The right weight of π and σ contributions to transport can be calculated
for both samples by $\kappa_{\pi}^{n}(T) = x\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)$ and
$\kappa_{\sigma}^{n}(T) = (1 - x)\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)$ once the
reliability of the x and $\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T)$ evaluation has been
verified. We point out that in the fit procedure, slightly varying the
gap values, the quality of the fit does not change very much, while the
x parameter for both the samples is very well defined. On the other
hand, below T_(c), $\kappa_{\rm el}^{n}(T) = T\mathcal{L}_{0}/\rho_{0}$
and therefore it only depends on the residual resistivity ρ₀ which can
be experimentally estimated. So we can write:

  ---------- ---------- --------- -------------- ------- ------- ------
  Sample      Θ_(D), K     ρ0           C         α_(π)   α_(σ)    x
                         (μΩ cm)   (μΩ cm K −2)                  
  MGB11-1S      1190      0.50          12        0.57    2.17    0.85
  MGB-1S        1130       1.9          18        0.60    1.90    0.75
  ---------- ---------- --------- -------------- ------- ------- ------

Table 2: Values of the parameters Θ_(D), ρ₀, and C obtained from the
normal state thermal conductivity best fit and α_(π), α_(σ), and x
obtained by fitting Eq. (5) with the superconducting state thermal
conductivity.

$$\kappa_{\pi}^{n}(T) = \frac{T\mathcal{L}_{0}}{\rho_{0,\pi}} = x\frac{T\mathcal{L}_{0}}{\rho_{0}} = T\mathcal{L}_{0}\varepsilon_{0}\omega_{\pi}^{2}\tau_{\pi}^{\rm im}\,,$$
(6a)
$$\kappa_{\sigma}^{n}(T) = \frac{T\mathcal{L}_{0}}{\rho_{0,\sigma}} = (1 - x)\frac{T\mathcal{L}_{0}}{\rho_{0}} = T\mathcal{L}_{0}\varepsilon_{0}\omega_{\sigma}^{2}\tau_{\sigma}^{\rm im}\,,$$
(6b)

where ε₀ is the dielectric constant, ω_(π, σ) are the plasma
frequencies, and $\tau_{\pi,\sigma}^{\rm im}$ are the intraband
scattering relaxation times with impurities for π and σ bands.

Our fits state that carriers in π bands mainly contribute to carry heat.
Indeed, the plasma frequency is larger for π than for σ bands [7] and
this is enhanced in polycrystalline samples by averaging in the three
directions. On the other hand, the scattering relaxation times change
from sample to sample. Introducing in Eq. (6) the values of x and ρ₀
listed in Table II, and setting ω_(π) = 6.226 eV and ω_(σ) = 3.403 eV
(Ref. [7]) we obtain the scattering relaxation times for the two samples
summarized in Table III. In particular we find, for the sample MGB11-1S
$\tau_{\pi}^{\rm im}$= 2.2×10⁻¹³ s, $\tau_{\pi}^{\rm im}$= 1.3×10⁻¹³ s
and the residual mean free paths
$\lambda_{\pi,\sigma}=\tau_{\pi,\sigma}^{\rm im}v_{F\pi,\sigma}$ , where
v_(Fπ, σ) are the averaged Fermi velocities for π and σ bands (v_(Fπ)=
5.6 ×10⁵ m/s, v_(Fσ)= 3.2×10⁵ m/s⁷), come out λ_(π)= 1.2 ×10⁻⁷ m and
λ_(σ)= 4.1×10⁻⁸ m. These values are very large, exceeding the lattice
constants by more than two orders of magnitude, indicating the excellent
purity of this sample. For MGB-1S the relaxation rates are reduced, but
the residual mean free paths are still large (λ_(π)= 2.9 ×10⁻⁸ m and
λ_(σ)= 1.8×10⁻⁸ m).

Let us now look at the relaxation times in more details. In MGB11-1S
$\tau_{\pi}^{\rm im}$>$\tau_{\sigma}^{\rm im}$ , while in MGB-1S both
the relaxation times are lower and
$\tau_{\pi}^{\rm im}$<$\tau_{\sigma}^{\rm im}$ . Practically, as the
disorder increases, it reduces more effectively $\tau_{\pi}^{\rm im}$
than $\tau_{\sigma}^{\rm im}$ . Actually, it is not easy to say which
kind of disorder is present in MGB-1S, itself being a quite pure sample.
But typical defects in MGB₂ are vacancies or substitutions in the Mg
site, which form more easily than in the B site. In these cases the
relaxation rate for intraband impurity scattering is larger in π than in
σ bands ($\tau_{\pi}^{\rm im}$<$\tau_{\sigma}^{\rm im}$). [13] This
prediction, which was well verified for large amount of defects, [9] is
here confirmed also going from very pure to rather pure samples.

This result can open new perspectives in thermal transport properties.
In fact, as the disorder increases, we expect that the transport of σ
bands prevails, and in superconducting state, the rapid QP condensation
due to the large gap related to σ bands can become evident. Thus, in
disordered samples, we expect that the thermal conductivity would
diminish in absolute values, but it should show a wide shoulder below
T_(c) . This fact, if true, is quite unusual, in fact the disorder
generally smoothens, rather than enhancing features.

As a matter of fact, looking at the thermal conductivity data in
literature, polycrystalline sintered samples do not show more evident
shoulder than clean samples. We think that polycrystalline samples, that
surely are more disordered than single crystals or bulk samples, present
resistive grain boundaries, which contribute to the thermal resistance
masking the intrinsic behavior of superconducting grains. [12] To
emphasize the transport of carriers in σ bands by the progressive
inhibition of transport in π bands, it is necessary to gradually
introduce defects in pure samples. This can be done by suitable chemical
substitution with the advantage of introducing a controlled amount of
defects in a chosen site. Up to now, substituted samples have been
obtained by sintering powders previously synthesized from the pure
elements and such samples are not suitable for transport measurements. A
second way is to introduce disorder by irradiation, but in this case the
problem is to obtain a uniform defect distribution.

In conclusion, the role of disorder in MgB₂, which multiband effects
make so peculiar, has been studied in pure samples by thermal transport
measurements. We analyzed in detail the thermal conductivity in the
superconducting state, and thanks to the large gap anisotropy we were
able to evaluate quantitatively the intraband scattering relaxation
times of π and σ bands.

## Acknowledgment

This work work is partially supported by the Istituto Nazionale per la
Fisica della Materia through the PRA UMBRA.

## References

* [*] Electronic mail address: putti@fisica.unige.it * [2] I. I. Mazin,
O. K. Andersen, O. Jepsen, O. Dolgov, J. Kortus, A. A. Golubov, A. B.
Kuz’menko, and D. van der Mare, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 107002
(2002). * [3] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and
J. Akimitzu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [4] A. Y. Liu, I. I.
Mazin, and J. Kortus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 087005 (2001). * [5] H.
J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, M. L. Cohen, and S. G. Louie, Nature
(London) **418**, 758 (2002). * [6] H. J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, M. L.
Cohen, and S. G. Louie, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 020513 (2002). * [7] F.
Bouquet, Y. Wang, R. A. Fisher, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, A. Junod,
and N. E. Phillips, Europhys. Lett. **56**, 856 (2001). * [8] A.
Brinkman, A. A. Golubov, H. Rogalla, O. V. Dolgov, J. Kortua, Y. Kong,
O. Jepsen, and O. K. Andersen, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 180517 (2002). * [9]
A. A. Golubov, A. Brinkman, O. V. Dolgov, J. Kortua, and O. Jepsen,
Phys. Rev. B **66**, 054524 (2002). * [10] M. Putti, V. Braccini, E.
Galleani d’Agliano, F. Napoli, I. Pallecchi, A. S. Siri, P. Manfrinetti,
and A. Palenzona, in Proceedings of BOROMAG, Genoa, 17-19 June 2002,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **16**, 188 (2003).

* (10) T. Muranaka, J. Akimitsu, and M. Sera, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
020505 (2001). * (11) E. Bauer, C. Paul, S. Berger, S. Majumdar, H.
Michor, M. Giovannini, A. Saccone, and A. Bianconi, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **13**, L487 (2001). * (12) M. Putti, E. Galleani d’Agliano, D.
Marre, F. Napoli, M. Tassisto, P. Manfrinetti, and A. Palenzona, in
_Studies of High temperature Superconductors_, edited by A. V. Narlikar
(Nova Science, New York, 2002), Vol. 38, p. 303. * (13) A. V.
Sologubenko, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H. Ott, Phys. Rev.
B **66**, 014504 (2002). * (14) A. Palenzona, P. Manfrinetti, and V.
Braccini, Tech. Rep., Istituto Nazionale Fisica della Materia (2001),
patent, No. TO2001A001098. * (15) D. K. Finnemore, J. E. Ostenson, S. L.
Bud’ko, G. Lapertot, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 2420
(2001). * (16) R. A. Ribeiro, S. L. Bud’ko, C. Petrovic, and P. C.
Canfield, cond-mat/0204510. * (17) R. Berman, _Thermal Conduction in
Solids_ (Clarendon, Oxford, 1976). * (18) M. Putti, in _Studies of High
Temperature Superconductors_, edited by A. Narlikar (Nova Science, New
York, 2001), Vol. 35, p. 281. * (19) C. Walti, E. Felder, C. Degen, G.
Wigger, R. Monnier, B. Delley, and H. R. Ott, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
172515 (2001). * (20) F. Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. G.
Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). *
(21) J. Bardeen, G. Rickayzen, and L. Tewordt, Phys. Rev. **113**, 982
(1959). * (22) B. T. Geilikman, M. I. Dushenat, and V. R. Chechetkin,
Sov. Phys. JETP **46**, 1213 (1977).
