Evidence for unconventional superconductivity in the nonoxide perovskite
MgCNi3 from penetration depth measurements

R. Prozorov and A. Snezhko

Department of Physics & Astronomy and USC NanoCenter, University of
South Carolina, 712 Main Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29208, USA

T. He and R. J. Cava

Department of Chemistry and Princeton Materials Institute, Princeton
University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA

15 September 2003; published 13 November 2003

###### Abstract

The London penetration depth l(_T_) was measured in polycrystalline
powders of the nonoxide perovskite superconductor MgCNi3 by using a
sensitive tunnel-diode resonator technique. The penetration depth
exhibits distinctly non _s_-wave BCS low-temperature behavior, instead
showing quadratic temperature dependence, suggestive of a nodal order
parameter.

pacs: 74.70.-b, 74.20.Rp, 74.25.Ha + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

Identification of the symmetry of the order parameter in superconductors
is one of the most challenging experimental problems in distinguishing
conventional from unconventional superconductivity. Theoretically, there
are several possibilities, including the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS)
_s_-wave[1] and unconventional _p_- and _d_-wave pairing scenarios.[2,
3, 4, 5] Each particular symmetry imposes constraints on the possible
mechanism of electron-electron pairing. Determination of the pairing
type, however, is often difficult. Electron-doped high-_T_c cuprates,
for example, were thought to exhibit _s_-wave BCS behavior, and only
recently were shown to be _d_-wave superconductors.[6, 7] The recently
discovered[9] nonoxide perovskite superconductor MgCNi3 is especially
important, because it is viewed as a bridge between high-_T_c cuprates
and conventional intermetallic superconductors. This material is close
to a magnetic instability on hole doping, and it is therefore natural to
ask whether an unconventional pairing mechanism might be operating.[10]
The absence of good single crystals and oriented films does not allow
the use of phase-sensitive techniques[11, 12] to probe pairing symmetry,
and therefore other methods must be employed. Thermal, magnetization,
resistivity, nuclear spin-lattice relaxation, and tunneling studies of
MgCNi3 have been reported.[8, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18] The
low-temperature London penetration depth measurements reported here
provide new insight into the nature of the superconductivity in MgCNi3.

The current experimental situation is highly controversial. On one hand,
evidence for conventional _s_-wave behavior is found in specific-heat
measurements,[13, 14] although the authors disagree on the coupling
strength. The nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/13CT_1 seems to
exhibit behavior characteristic of an _s_-wave superconductor.[19] Some
tunneling data support conventional _s_-wave pairing.[15] On the other
hand, a zero-bias conductance peak (ZBCP) attributed to Andreev bound
states has been observed, and it was argued that the observed ZBCP could
not be due to intergranular coupling or other spurious effects.[16]
Nonmagnetic disorder introduced by irradiation was found to
significantly suppress superconductivity.[17] Such suppression is not
expected in materials with a fully developed gap, and is a strong
indication of an order parameter with nodes. Theoretical calculations
support this conclusion.[18] Furthermore, recent theoretical
developments predict the possibility of a unique unconventional
state,[20] which might reconcile apparently contradictory experimental
observations.

Previous studies conclude that more experimental data are needed in
order to draw a conclusion regarding the pairing symmetry in MgCNi3. It
is very difficult to experimentally identify the nonexponential
contribution of low-energy quasiparticles due to the presence of nodes
in the superconducting gap on the Fermi surface. In the case of thermal
measurements, this electronic contribution is masked by a large phonon
contribution. For electromagnetic measurements, sensitivity is typically
a problem. Precise measurements of the London penetration depth are
therefore very important.

In this paper we report measurements of the magnetic penetration depth
l(_T_) down to 0.4 K in polycrystalline powders of the monoxide
perovskite superconductor MgCNi3 (_T_c_ 7.2 K). The sample employed for
this measurement was exactly the one of composition MgC0.98Ni3
characterized by neutron diffraction.[21] The synthesis is described in
detail in that publication.

In order to avoid artifacts related to possible intergrain coupling,
three different samples were prepared: powder mixed in paraffin, powder
mixed and solidified in low-temperature Stycast 1266 epoxy, and a pellet
sintered at room temperature and 2.5 GPa for 8 h. All samples showed
similar low-temperature behavior, indicating no additional contribution
from intergrain coupling. We note that our previous measurements of MgB2
powder of similar grain size gave results fully consistent with _s_-wave
symmetry and are in complete agreement with measurements performed on
single crystals.[22] In addition, a sample cut from a polycrystalline
niobium foil was measured for comparison.

The penetration depth l(_T_) was measured by using a 13 MHz tunnel-diode
driven _LC_ resonator[23, 24] mounted in a 3He refrigerator. An external
dc magnetic field (0-6 T) could be applied parallel to the ac field ( 5
mOe). The oscillator frequency shift l_f_ = _f_(_T_) - _f_(_T_min_) is
proportional to the linear ac susceptibility and, therefore, to the
change in the penetration depth, Δλ = λ(T) − λ(T_(mih)).[24] At low
temperatures, Δf =  − Δf₀Δλ/R, where Δf₀ is the total frequency shift
when the perfectly diamagnetic sample is inserted into an empty
resonator, and R is the characteristic sample size.[6, 23] In the case
of powders, the observed frequency shift is the sum of contributions
from individual grains. The grain-size distribution obtained from
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image analysis followed log-normal
distribution centered around 0.6 μm with σ = 0.2 μm. To verify that
granular nature does not introduce unwanted effects, we solved
numerically the London equation for the actual size distribution. The
calculated response was always additive, with no noticeable interference
effects. Furthermore, we solved BCS equations for integral superfluid
density with our grain-size distribution and found no deviations from
the exponential behavior at low temperatures. The computations were done
in Matlab using Femlab multiphysics Toolbox.[24, 25] An experimental
approach using sensitive bulk magnetization measurements on powder
superconductors was effectively employed to study penetration depth in
high-T_(c) cuprates.[26] It has also been successfully used in
tunnel-diode resonator measurements of MgB₂ powders[22] and
polycrystalline wires.[27] Using the approach described in Ref. [22] we
estimated λ(0) ≈ 2500 ± 200 A in agreement with literature data.[16]

Although we can only estimate the absolute value of the magnetic
penetration depth, our technique provides a very sensitive (1 part per
10¹⁰) detection of the _change_ in the penetration depth. By varying
temperature, Δλ(T) is obtained. In all plots, Δf(T)/Δf₀ proportional to
Δλ(T) through a calibration constant is shown. The calibration constant
depends on grain-size distribution and the number of grains per unit
volume of a composite material, and is difficult to estimate reliably.
Importantly, it does not influence the temperature variation, which is
the focus of this work.

Clear evidence for a d-wave superconducting order parameter is linear
temperature variation of the London penetration depth,
Δλ(T)/λ(0) ≈ 12/Δ(0)T.[3, 5] In a conventional s-wave superconductor, on
the other hand, an exponential decay is expected for the penetration
depth:
$\Delta\lambda\!=\!\lambda(0)\!/\sqrt{\pi\lambda(0)/2T}\!\exp(-\Delta(0)/T)$
for T  ≈ 0.32T_(c) with Δ(0)/T_(c) = 1.76.[2, 3] Measurements on a
nonoriented powder mean that the result is averaged over all
contributions λ_(a, b, c). Fortunately, MgCNi₃ is isotropic and
therefore we obtain values characteristic for this material.

Figure 1 presents λ(T) measured in MgCNi₃ powder mixed in paraffin. The
data are compared with the measurements performed on a sample cut from a
polycrystalline niobium foil. The niobium data are fully consistent with
the weak coupling s-wave BCS picture (in the entire temperature range).
The data for MgCNi₃ also approach saturation on decreasing temperature.
The magnetization measured on a commercial magnetometer would show no
temperature dependence in the low-temperature region. However, our
resolution is sufficient to study the low-temperature part. Apparently,
the data obtained for MgCNi₃ are strikingly different from that of Nb.
The inset in Fig. 1 shows actual penetration depth values.

Although the observed temperature dependence is obviously not
exponential, it is instructive to attempt to fit the data to the
standard low-temperature BCS form with Δ(0)/T_(c) being a free
parameter. Figure 2 shows such a best fit, which clearly does not
describe the data. In addition, the extracted Δ(0)/T_(c) = 0.83 ± 0.02
is too low. The inset shows the residual, Data − Fit, which reveals
large systematic deviation from the BCS behavior down to the lowest
temperature.

The measured temperature dependence of Δλ(T) is plotted versus T² in
Fig. 3. The observed behavior is quite linear on this T² scale up to
T/T_(c) ≈ 0.25. The inset shows the residuals plot, which confirms an
overall good agreement of the fit with the experimental data. The
residuals plot scales in the insets of Figs. 2 and 3 have the same
absolute ordinate scale for easy visual comparison, showing the
dramatically better power-law fit to the data. A fit to the power-law
dependence, Δ(T) ∼ T^(n) with the exponent n as a free parameter

Figure 2: Upper curve: Best s-wave BCS fit for MgCNi₃ using a standard
expression (described in the text) with Δ(0)/T_(c) as a free parameter.
The lower curve shows Nb sample and a standard BCS fit. Inset:
residuals, Data − Fit, for the best s-wave BCS fit, which yields
Δ(0)/T_(c) = 0.83 ± 0.02.

Figure 1: Magnetic penetration depth measured in zero external field in
MgCNi₃ (upper curves) compared to polycrystalline Nb foil (lower
curves). The inset shows actual penetration depth at low temperatures.

is also shown in Fig. 3. The best fit gives n ≈ 2.44, however, this is
fit-range dependent. The obtained values of n decrease upon reduction of
the fit-range and approach n = 2 below T/T_(c) ≈ 0.25, which is another
indication of the robustness of the inferred λ(T) ∼ T^(n) behavior. The
residuals of the n = 2.44 fit are compared to the n = 2 residuals in the
inset to Fig. 2.

In a clean d-wave superconductor, a linear temperature dependence of
Δλ(T) / λ(0) = Tln 2/Δ (0) is predicted [3, 4] and observed [28].
However, this behavior is not expected in our case of microcrystalline
powder with natural grain surface roughness. In such a case, temperature
dependence resulting from impurity scattering provides a more plausible
model, where a quadratic temperature variation of Δλ(T) is expected [3,
28]. The rate of change is dλ/dT ≈ 3.1 A/K, comparable to 4-5 A/K
observed in yttrium barium copper oxide (YBCO) [28]. Indeed, if we had
pure linear variation of λ(T), the rate of change would be somewhat
larger. There is an alternative explanation for T² behavior in a d-wave
superconductor. The divergence of the effective coherence length
ξ = h_(F)/πΔ(k) (where υ_(F) is the Fermi velocity) near the nodes of a
d-wave order parameter yields Δλ(T)  ∼ T² due to nonlocal
electrodynamics [29]. Nonlocality is predicted to arise below
T_(nonlocal) ≈ ξ (0)Δ(0) / λ(0), where ξ (0) is the coherence length at
zero temperature. In MgCNi₃T_(nonlocal) ≈ 0.05T/T_(c), estimated using
reported superconducting parameters [6]. Since we observe quadratic
temperature dependence up to roughly T/T_(c) = 0.25, nonlocality is
unlikely to explain the observed behavior.

Another possibility that might result in apparently non-s-wave behavior
of λ(T) would be to have a significant distribution of transition
temperatures, T_(c) , due to inhomogeneities in chemical composition.
However, our numerical solution in the framework of the weak-coupling
s-wave BCS theory indicates that in order to mimic the T² behavior
observed, the sample would have to contain a linear probability
distribution of T_(c)’s extending from 7.2 to 0 K. This kind of
distribution is chemically unfeasible, and, in addition, is impossible
for MgC_(x)Ni₃ because the perovskite phase becomes chemically unstable
at a minimum T_(c) of 2.5 K [21]. The absence of phases with T_(c)’s
below 2.5 K means that what appears to be non-BCS behavior cannot be
induced in the low-temperature range of interest here by chemical
inhomogeneity. Finally, there is neither indication of chemical
inhomogeneity induced broadening in the neutron-diffraction pattern [21]
nor in the observed superconducting transition (see Fig. 4), indicating
that the observed T² behavior cannot have a chemical origin.

The interpretation of our data in terms of a particular
superconductivity mechanism is further complicated by the fact that some
reports suggest that MgCNi₃ is a multiband superconductor in which
nontrivial interband coupling may reconcile existing s-wave observations
with unconventional superconductivity. Calculations by Voelker and
Sigrist [20] performed along these lines call for new experimental data,
in particular, penetration depth measurements. We hope results reported
here will motivate further theoretical study.

Figure 4 shows measurements of the penetration depth at various values
of the external dc magnetic field. The overall behavior suggests weak
pinning–the screening strength reduces due to a rapid increase of the
Campbell penetration depth. By measuring the onset of superconductivity
at different fields, the H_(c2)(T) dependence can be reconstructed. The
inset of Fig. 4 shows the onset temperature compared to the onset
temperature obtained by using _Quantum Design_ MPMS magnetometer. The
good agreement is an independent evidence that our results, obtained on
a 13 MHz resonator, are not introducing undesirable frequency effects.
From the measurements of the upper critical field, we obtain
H_(c2)/dT ≈ 3 T/K, which is consistent with previous measurements [17,
30].

In conclusion, we have presented measurements and detailed experimental
analysis of the London penetration depth in the monoxide perovskite
superconductor MgCNi₃. Our results show clear evidence for the quadratic
temperature variation of λ(T) at temperatures below  ≈ 0.25T_(c). This
be

Figure 3: Penetration depth plotted versus T² compared to a standard
s-wave curve. The fit to a pure T² behavior is shown by solid line. The
fit to T^(n) with n as a free parameter is shown by dotted line. Inset:
residuals for fit with n = 2 (solid symbols) compared to the residuals
of n = 2.44 fit. The vertical scale of the inset is the same as in the
inset of Fig. 2 for comparison.

Figure 4: λ(T) measured at different values of the external dc magnetic
field, from H = 0 to H = 5 T. The inset shows onset of superconductivity
in tunnel diode measurements (closed symbols) compared to
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer
measurements (open symbols).

havior indicates the presence of low-energy quasiparticles, and
therefore unconventional non s-wave superconductivity. It is consistent
with d-wave pairing in the presence of strong impurity scattering, but
other unconventional mechanisms may be implied.

## References

* [1] J. Bardeen, L.N. Cooper, and J.R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**,
1175 (1957). * [2] J.F. Annett, N.D. Goldenfeld, and S. Renn, in
_Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors II_, edited by
D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, New Jersey, 1990). * [3] D.J.
Scalapino, Phys. Rep. **250**, 329 (1995). * [4] B. Brandow, Phys. Rep.
**296**, 1 (1998). * [5] P.J. Hirschfeld and N. Goldenfeld, Phys. Rev. B
**48**, 4219 (1993). * [6] R. Prozorov, R.W. Giannetta, P. Fournier, and
R.L. Greene, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 3700 (2000). * [7] C.C. Tsuei and
J.R. Kirtley, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 182 (2000). * [8] S.Y. Li, W.Q.
Mo, M. Yu, W.H. Zheng, C.H. Wang, Y.M. Xiong, R. Fan, H.S. Yang, B.M.
Wu, L.Z. Cao, and X.H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 064534 (2002). * [9]
T. He, Q. Huang, A.P. Ramirez, Y. Wang, K.A. Regan, N. Rogado, M.A.
Hayward, M.K. Haas, J.S. Slusky, K. Inumarra, H.W. Zandbergen, N.P. Ong,
and R.J. Cava, Nature (London) **411**, 54 (2001). * [10] H. Rosner, R.
Weht, M.D. Johannes, W.E. Pickett, and E. Tosatti, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**88**, 027001 (2002). * [11] D.J. Van Harlingen, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**67**, 515 (1995). * [12] C.C. Tsuei and J.R. Kirtley, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**72**, 969 (2000). * [13] J.Y. Lin, P.L. Ho, H.L. Huang, PH. Lin, Y.L.
Zhang, R.C. Yu, C.Q. Jin, and H.D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 052501
(2003). * [14] A. Walte, H. Rosner, M.D. Johannes, G. Fuchs, K.H.
Muller, A. Handstein, K. Nenkov, V.N. Narozhnyi, S.L. Drechsler, S.
Shulga, and L. Schultz, cond-mat/0208364 (unpublished). * [15] G.
Kinoda, M. Nishiyama, Y. Zhao, M. Murakami, N. Koshizuka, and T.
Hasegawa, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **40**, L1365 (2001).

## Appendix A Physical Review B **68**, 180502(R) (2003)

We thank R. W. Giannetta for helpful discussions. Work at the University
of South Carolina was supported by the NSF/EPSCoR under Grant No.
EPS-0296165. Work at Princeton was supported by the Department of
Energy, Grant No. DE-FG02-98-ER45706.

## References

* [1] J. Bardeen, L.N. Cooper, and J.R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**,
1175 (1957). * [2] J.F. Annett, N.D. Goldenfeld, and S. Renn, in
_Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors II_, edited by
D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, New Jersey, 1990). * [3] D.J.
Scalapino, Phys. Rep. **250**, 329 (1995). * [4] B. Brandow, Phys. Rep.
**296**, 1 (1998). * [5] P.J. Hirschfeld and N. Goldenfeld, Phys. Rev. B
**48**, 4219 (1993). * [6] R. Prozorov, R.W. Giannetta, P. Fournier, and
R.L. Greene, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 3700 (2000). * [7] C.C. Tsuei and
J.R. Kirtley, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 182 (2000). * [8] S.Y. Li, W.Q.
Mo, M. Yu, W.H. Zheng, C.H. Wang, Y.M. Xiong, R. Fan, H.S. Yang, B.M.
Wu, L.Z. Cao, and X.H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 064534 (2002).
