# Pressure-induced topological insulator-to-metal transition and
superconductivity

in Sn-doped Bi_(1.1)Sb_(0.9)Te₂S

Chao An

Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Condensed Matter Physics at Extreme
Conditions, High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Hefei 230031, China University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei
230026, China

Xuliang Chen

xlchen@hmf.ac.cn Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Condensed Matter
Physics at Extreme Conditions, High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, China

Bin Wu

National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures, School of Physics,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China

Yonghui Zhou

Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Condensed Matter Physics at Extreme
Conditions, High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Hefei 230031, China

Ying Zhou

Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Condensed Matter Physics at Extreme
Conditions, High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Hefei 230031, China

Ranran Zhang

Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Condensed Matter Physics at Extreme
Conditions, High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Hefei 230031, China

Changyong Park

HPCAT, Geophysical Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington,
Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA

Fengqi Song

Collo-Institute Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing
210093, China Institute of Physical Science and Information Technology,
Anhui University, Hefei 230601, China

Zhaorong Yang

zryang@issp.ac.cn Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Condensed Matter
Physics at Extreme Conditions, High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, China University of Science and
Technology of China, Hefei 230026, China

###### Abstract

Tetradymite-type topological insulator Sn-doped Bi_(1.1)Sb_(0.9)Te₂S
(Sn-BSTS), with a surface state Dirac point energy well isolated from
the bulk valence and conduction bands, is an ideal platform for studying
the topological transport phenomena. Here, we present high-pressure
transport studies on single-crystal Sn-BSTS, combined with Raman
scattering and synchrotron x-ray diffraction measurements. Over the
studied pressure range of 0.7-37.2 GPa, three critical pressure points
can be observed: (i) At ∼9 GPa, a pressure-induced topological
insulator-to-metal transition is revealed due to closure of the bulk
band gap, which is accompanied by changes in slope of the Raman
frequencies and a minimum in _c/a_ within the pristine rhombohedral
structure (_R_-3_m_); (ii) at ∼13 GPa, superconductivity is observed to
emerge, along with the _R_-3m to a _C_/_c_ (monoclinic) structural
transition; (iii) at ∼24 GPa, the superconducting transition onset
temperature _T_C reaches a maximum of ∼12 K, accompanied by a second
structural transition from the _C_/_c_ to a body-centered cubic _1m_-3m
phase.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.97.174516

## I Introduction

Pressure tuning of structural and electrical properties in
tetradymite-type topological insulators (TIs) like Bi₂Se₃, Bi₂Te₃, and
Sb₂Te₃ has attracted much attention because of discoveries of a variety
of interesting phenomena [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22]. For instance, synchrotron x-ray
diffraction and Raman scattering measurements in Bi₂Se₃ reveal a minimum
in the lattice parameters ratio _c/a_ and changes in pressure
dependences of the Raman frequencies at the same low pressure far before
a structural phase transition [1]; meanwhile, discontinuities in
conductivity are observed around this critical pressure [2]. Similar
situations are also encountered in other members of tetradymite-type TIs
[3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10], despite the critical pressures being somewhat
different. Due to the absence of a structural transition, these
anomalies were usually related to a pressure-induced electronic
topological transition (ETT) or Lifshitz transition. As is known, the
Lifshitz transition [23] links to the van Hove singularity associated
with the band extrema passing through the Fermi level, and in the
presence of such transition the distribution of carriers and Fermi
surface topology changes. Considering the lack of such changes, Bera _et
al._[11] thus termed the transition as an isostructural transition,
instead of the ETT. Obviously, the origins of these anomalies still
remain elusive. Besides, superconductivity is commonly observed in these
TIs at high pressures [12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17]. Interest is widely
sparked by the expectation of realizing topological superconductivity
[16], in spite of the absence of direct experimental evidence so far.

TI is characterized by the insulating bulk state and metallic
topological surface states (TSSs) that are protected by time-reversal
symmetry. Ideally, a surface state Dirac point energy is isolated well
from the bulk valence and conduction bands. Experimentally, for as-grown
tetradymite-type nominally stoichiometric TIs, a metallic bulk
conduction arising from inherent Se/Te deficiencies usually overwhelms
the surface transport [24, 25, 26]. Therefore, it is hard to unveil the
pressure evolutions of the intrinsic conductions of the bulk insulating
state and TSSs via transport, which in turn may result in
misunderstanding of the structural responses to external pressure.

In view of the above, here we present a systematic study of the
electrical, structural, and vibrational properties on a recently
discovered TI Sn-doped Bi_(1.1)Sb_(0.9)Te₂S (Sn-BSTS) [27] in diamond
anvil cells with pressures up to 37.2 GPa, which has a well-isolated
bulk state from the TSSs. Thanks to the unique band structure of
Sn-BSTS, we can successfully trace the pressure evolutions of the bulk
and TSSs conductivities separately, which are vital for unveiling the
topological insulator-to-metal transition-related structural and
vibrational anomalies, instead of an ETT. Interestingly, the _T_C
maximum of ∼12 K obtained here is the highest value among all the
pressurized tetradymite-type TIs.

## II Experimental Details

Sn-BSTS single crystals were grown by a modified Bridgman technique
[28]. The high quality of the single crystals was checked by
single-crystal and powder x-ray diffractions as well as energy
dispersive spectra (see Fig. S1 and notes in the Supplemental Material
for more details [29]). A standard four-probe method was employed to
perform the high-pressure electrical transport measurements in a
temperature range of 1.8-300 K in a Be-Cu diamond anvil cell (DAC),
designed by the Honest Machinery Designer’s office (HMD), Japan. A piece
of single crystal cleaved from the bulk Sn-BSTS single crystal was
loaded with sodium chloride (NaCl) powder as the pressure transmitting
medium and the current were introduced in the _ab_ plane.

Pressure was generated by a Mao-Bell-type symmetric DAC for the
synchrotron x-ray diffraction (XRD) and Raman scattering measurements.
Raman scattering measurements were performed at room temperature on
freshly cleaved Sn-BSTS single crystals using 532-nm solid-state laser
for excitation with the power below 1

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1(a) displays the temperature (_T_) dependence of the electrical
resistance (_R_) of the Sn-BSTS single crystal at pressures from 0.7 to
10.5 GPa. At 0.7 GPa, a huge

Figure 1: (a) Resistance (_R_) versus temperature (_T_) curves in the
pressure range of 0.7–10.5 GPa. The current (_I_) is introduced in the
_ab_ plane of the single crystal. (b) Temperature dependence of the
conductivity at 0.7 GPa fitted by the formula of
σ(T) = σ_(S)(T) + σ_(B)(T) (red line). More details can be found in the
main text. (c) Evolutions of the surface and bulk conductivities with
pressures to 3.8 GPa. (d) Magnetoresistance (_MR_) measured at 5 K and 7
T under pressures to 10.5 GPa.

resistance hump at T_(h) ∼ 170 K is observed, in agreement with that
measured at ambient pressure [27]. At ambient pressure, the conductance
of Sn-BSTS is considered as a sum of two parallel channels: surface
(σ_(S)) and bulk (σ_(B)) conductances [34]. For simplicity, a
two-channel model with the formula of σ(T) = σ_(S)(T) + σ_(B)(T) is
employed. The former contribution is written as σ_(S)(T) = 1/ρ_(S)(T),
where ρ_(S)(T) = ρ₀ + bT² + cT, while the latter one is expressed as
σ_(B)(T) = 1/ρ_(B)(T), where ρ_(B)(T) = aexp (E_(g)/2k_(B)T)[35]. Figure
1(b) shows the fitting results with the two-channel model at 0.7 GPa, in
which the dashed and solid lines represent σ_(S) and σ_(B),
respectively. It yields a bulk band gap E_(g) = 294 meV, which is a
little smaller than 350 meV revealed by ARPES for Sn-BSTS at ambient
pressure [27]. Upon compression to 3.8 GPa, the T_(h) shifts towards
lower temperatures rapidly, which indicates that the contribution of the
bulk state to the total conductivity becomes increasingly dominant. As
displayed in Fig. 1(c), the conductivity of the bulk state shows a rapid
enhancement with increasing pressure, while that of the surface state
increases marginally upon compression. At 6.4 GPa, the resistance
exhibits a semiconductinglike behavior in the whole temperature range,
suggesting that the contribution of topological surface states (TSSs)
are overwhelmed by that of the bulk state. Further increasing the
pressure to 10.5 GPa, a partial metallic behavior below 190 K is
observed, signaling the metallization of the bulk state.

As the contribution of the TSSs can also be identified through
magnetotransport measurements, magnetoresistance (MR) was measured at 5
K under various pressures up to 10.5 GPa with magnetic fields
perpendicular to the ab plane, as shown in Fig. 1(d). One can see that
the MR decreases monotonically with increasing pressure. In the
low-pressure region of 0.7-3.8 GPa, MR exhibits a concave behavior,
which is very similar to that observed in the tetradymite-type TIs and
can be attributed to weak antilocalization originating from the TSSs
[36, 37]. Further increasing the pressure, the MR changes to a convex
behavior at 6.4 GPa, above which a classical power-law behavior
(MR ∝ H²) develops gradually. These observations indicate that the bulk
state conductance dominates above 6.4 GPa, in excellent consistence with
the results from the R-T data shown in Fig. 1(a).

Upon further compression to 12.6 GPa, a pronounced resistance drop is
clearly seen below ∼4 K as presented in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b). Zero
resistance is observed at 14.3 GPa, suggesting the appearance of
superconductivity in the pressurized Sn-BSTS. The presence of
superconductivity is further confirmed by the temperature dependence of
resistance measurements under various magnetic fields perpendicular to
the ab plane at 14.3 GPa. As shown in Fig. 2(c), the superconducting
transition temperature T_(C) is monotonically decreased with increasing
magnetic field and the resistance drop is almost smeared out at 1.5 T.
The inset of Fig. 2(c) shows the upper critical field μ₀H_(C2) as a
function of temperature. Here the μ₀H_(C2) value is defined from the
resistance criterion of $R_{\rm crit}=90\%R_{n}$ (R_(n) is the normal
state resistance near T_(C)). The upper critical field μ₀H_(C2) is
estimated to be 2.31 T according to the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg
(WHHH) equation [38].

To check the relationship between superconductivity and structure, _in
situ_ high-pressure synchrotron XRD measurements were performed on
powdered single-crystal Sn-BSTS up to 31.6 GPa. The experimental
patterns are presented in Fig. 3(a). Upon compression, the rhombohedral
structure (R-3m) of Sn-BSTS is found to be stable up to 11.7 GPa, above
which several new peaks show up as denoted by

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of the resistance in the pressure
range of 12.6-37.2 GPa. (b) An enlarged view of the low-temperature
resistance, highlighting the superconducting transition. (c) Temperature
dependence of the resistance under different magnetic fields up to 1.5
T. The applied pressure is 14.3 GPa. Inset of (c) shows temperature
dependence of the upper critical field μ₀H_(C2) (T). The solid line is
the WHH fit to the data and μ₀H_(C2)(0) is estimated to be 2.31 T.

arrows, suggesting occurrence of a structural transition. In the
intermediate pressure range, this new structural phase is observed to
coexist with the low-pressure pristine one. With increasing pressure
above 19.1 GPa, the low-pressure _R_-3m phase disappears completely,
while another new structural phase transition takes place, as indicated
by appearance of new peaks. Both high-pressure phases coexist up to the
highest pressure of 31.6 GPa achieved in the present study. We also plot
the phase quantification as a function of pressure in Fig. S2
(Supplemental Material [29]). In addition to two critical pressures
relating to the structural phase transition, phase coexistences and
their respective evolutions with pressure are also clearly revealed.
After carefully analyzing and fitting the data, we found that the
pressure-induced structural transition sequence in Sn-BSTS is _R_-3m
→_C_2/_c_ →_Im_-3m, in agreement with those observed in its brother
compounds Bi₂Te₃ and Sb₂Te₅[18, 19, 20]. Typical standard Rietveld
refinements at 1.3, 15.0, and 31.6 GPa are displayed in Fig. 3(b). The
corresponding fit parameters are displayed in Table S1 [29].

The detailed lattice parameters and volume as a function of pressure are
exhibited in Figs. 3(c) and 3(d). The equation of state (EOS) was fitted
by using the third-order Birch-Murnaghan formula [39]:

$$P = \frac{3}{2}B_{0}[(V_{0}/V)^{7/3}-(V_{0}/V)^{5/3}]$$
(1)
$$\times \left\{1+\frac{3}{4}(B^{{}^{\prime}}_{0}-4)[(V_{0}/V)^{2/3}-1] \right\},$$

where V₀, B₀, and B₀^(^(′)) are the volume, bulk modulus −V/(dV/dP), and
first-order derivative of the bulk modulus at zero pressure,
respectively. The fitting yields V₀  = 153.7 Å³, B₀  = 51.4 GPa, and
B₀^(^(′))  = 7.0 for the _R_-3m phase; 141.7 Å³, 97.2 GPa, and 7.4 for
the C2/_c_ phase; and 137.5 Å³, 122.9 GPa, and 4.0 for the _Im_-3m
phase. In addition, the volume collapses at these two structural
transition pressures are estimated to be about 1.8

The structural transitions are also reflected in Raman measurements as
shown in Fig. 4. At 1.3 GPa, two main peaks centered at 112.7 and 170.4
cm⁻¹ are observed, similar to those observed at ambient pressure (Fig.
S1(d) [29] and Ref. [27]). These two peaks can be assigned to the _Eg_
and _A2g_ vibrational modes [27], respectively. With increasing
pressure, both Raman peaks move towards higher frequencies
monotonically. At 12.6 GPa, a new peak at 156.8 cm⁻¹ develops due to the
structural transition from _R_-3m to C2/_c_, which can be assigned to
the _Ag_ mode [4, 6]. Upon further compression above 24.2 GPa, all Raman
mode disappears relating to the structural transition from C2/_c_ to
_Im_-3m. These conclusions are reproducible from a second high-pressure
Raman experiment except for a minor difference in the critical pressure
values (Fig. S3 [29]).

To obtain a comprehensive understanding of the pressure-induced
metallization and superconductivity in TI Sn-BSTS, the pressure
dependences of the frequency and full width at half maximum (FWHM) of
Raman modes, lattice parameters ratio _c_/_a_, bulk gap _Eg_, and
superconducting critical temperature _T__(C) are plotted together in
Fig. 5. It is found that the lattice ratio _c_/_a_ shows a minimum
around 9 GPa [Fig. 5(a)]. Concurrently, clear

Figure 3: (a) Synchrotron x-ray diffraction patterns of Sn-BSTS at room
temperature with pressures up to 31.6 GPa (λ = 0.4133 Å). (b) Typical
Rietveld refinement results at 1.3, 15.0, and 31.6 GPa by using the Le
Bail method. (c) Lattice parameters as a function of pressure. (d) The
unit-cell volume versus pressure. The data were fitted by the
third-order Birch-Murnaghan formula.

changes in the slope of Raman frequencies and the FWHM of the E_(g) and
A_(2g) mode are observed [Figs. 5(b) and 5(c)]. Meanwhile, closure of
the bulk gap is estimated at ∼9 GPa by extrapolating the E_(g) versus P
curve [wine dashed line in Fig. 5(d)]. Consequently, all of these
structural and vibrational anomalies at ∼9 GPa should be related to the
closure of the bulk gap, i.e., a pressure-induced topological
insulator-to-metal transition, through electron-phonon coupling [40,
41].

We note that similar anomalous behaviors have been reported in previous
high-pressure studies of tetradymite-type TIs, which were attributed to
an electronic topological transition (ETT) [1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]. On the
one hand, to check whether there is an ETT in Sn-BSTS or not, we have
plotted the reduced pressure versus Eulerian strain [5]. In Fig. S4
[29], one can see that only linear behaviors are observed, in stark
contrast to previous cases, probably indicating the absence of ETT. On
the other hand, as reported previously, the transport behavior in these
parent TIs is dominated by the inherent impurity states [24, 26]. The
impurity states contribute a metallic transport that overwhelms the
contributions from the TSSs, resulting in the experimentally observed
metallic feature in R-T[24]. Therefore, the interference from the
impurity states may mask the pressure effect on inherent electrical,
structural, and vibrational responses of both TSSs and bulk state. In
the present case, due to the unique electrical band structure of Tl
Sn-BSTS, we can trace the pressure dependencies of the TSSs and bulk
state separately. Importantly, a pressure-induced topological
insulator-to-metal transition of Sn-BSTS is successfully unveiled, which
is simultaneously accompanied by structural and vibrational anomalies.
In view of the above two points, we argue that the previously observed
anomalies in pressurized tetradymite-type parent TIs might be related to
the closure of the bulk band gap of the topological insulator, instead
of the ETT [1, 4, 5, 6, 7].

Upon further increasing pressure, another two critical pressures can be
clearly discerned relating to the successive structural transitions.
Accompanied by the first structural transition, superconductivity is
observed at ∼13 GPa with T_(C) ∼ 3.8 K. Further increasing the pressure,
the FWHM of the A_(g) mode is observed to enhance gradually, implying an
increasing electron-phonon coupling [40, 41]. Meanwhile,

Figure 4: Selected Raman spectra of Sn-BSTS at room temperature with
pressures up to 24.2 GPa.

Figure 5: (a) Lattice ratio of _c/a_ as a function of pressure. (b)
Pressure dependence of Raman frequencies of Sn-BSTS. Solid lines are
linear fits to data. (c) Pressure dependence of FWHM of Sn-BSTS. Solid
line denotes linear fits to data. (d) Pressure-temperature diagram of
Sn-BSTS. The left axis stands for temperature T and the right axis
corresponds to the bulk band gap E_(g). “TT” and “SC” denote topological
insulators and superconductivity, respectively.

$T_{\rm C}$ also increases rapidly [Fig. 5(d)], probably hinting at a
phonon-mediated superconductivity. $T_{\rm C}$ reaches a maximum value
of ∼12 K at 21.8 GPa, around which the second structural transition
happens.

In the tetradymite-type TIs family [12; 15; 16; 17; 42], the occurrence
of superconductivity under high pressure is commonly accompanied by a
structural transition or structural instability; the $T_{\rm C}$
increases rapidly and reaches a maximum at a higher pressure, where a
second structural transition appears. This is also true for the present
case of Sn-BSTS. However, the $T_{\rm C}$ trend in the second
high-pressure structural phase is somewhat different. In the
Se-dominated compounds, for example, Bi₂Se₃[15] and
Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃[42], $T_{\rm C}$ stays almost constant with pressure,
which was considered as an indication of unconventional
superconductivity; in Te-dominated compounds, for example, Bi₂Te₃[12]
and here Sn-BSTS, $T_{\rm C}$ decreases gradually with pressure. This
might be related to a difference in the high-pressure structural
symmetries: Generally a tetragonal _14/mmm_ or a bcc-like C2/m lattice
develops for the former while a cubic Im-3m lattice develops for the
latter. Interestingly, the $T_{\rm C}$ maximum obtained here is the
highest value in this TIs family studied so far.

## IV Conclusions

In summary, we have investigated the high-pressure electrical,
structural, and vibrational properties of TI Sn-doped
Bi_(1.1)Sb_(0.9)Te₂S with pressures up to 37.2 GPa. With increasing
pressure, a pressure-induced metallization from closure of the bulk gap
is revealed around 9 GPa, accompanied by a change in slope of the Raman
modes and a minimum in the lattice ratio of _c/a_. Furthermore,
superconductivity is observed at 12.6 GPa and T_(C) reaches the maximum
of ∼12 K at 21.8 GPa, which is the highest T_(C) ever reported in
tetradymite-type TIs. Based on the synchrotron XRD and Raman
measurements, the appearance of superconductivity and the decrease in
T_(C) could be related to successive structural transitions.

###### Acknowledgements.

This research was supported by the National Key Research and Development
Program of China (Grants No. 2018YFA0305700 and No. 2016YFA0401804), the
NSFC (Grants No. U1632275, No. 11574323, No. U1732273, No. U1732159, No.
91421109, No. 91622115, No. 11522432, and No. 11704387), the NSF of
Anhui Province (1708085QA19), the Director’s Fund of Heefi Institute of
Physical Science, CAS (YZJJ201621). F.Q.S. thanks the Fundamental
Research Funds for the Central Universities. The x-ray work was
performed at HPCAT (Sector 16), Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National
Laboratory. HPCAT operations are supported by DOE-NNSA under Award No.
DE-NA0001974 and DOE-BES under Award No. DE-FG02-99ER45775, with partial
instrumentation funding by NSF. The Advanced Photon Source is a US
Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science User Facility operated for
the DOE Office of Science by Argonne National Laboratory under Contract
No. DE-AC02-06CH11357. We thank Dr. Haiyun Shu for his help with gas
loading and Dr. Wenge Yang for facilitating the Raman experiments at
HPSTAR, Shanghai.

## References

* (1) R. Vilaplana, D. Santamaria-Perez, O. Gomis, F. J. Manjon, J.
Gonzalez, A. Segura, A. Munoz, P. Rodriguez-Hernandez, E.
Perez-Gonzalez, V. Marin-Borras, V. Munoz-Sanjose, C. Drasar, and V.
Kucek, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 184110 (2011). * (2) J. K. Zhang, Y. H. Han,
C. L. Liu, X. Zhang, F. Ke, G. Peng, Y. M. Ma, Y. Z. Ma, and C. X. Gao,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **105**, 062102 (2014). * (3) A. Nakayama, M. Einaga,
Y. Tanabe, S. Nakano, F. Ishikawa, and Y. Yamada, High Pressure Res.
**29**, 245 (2009). * (4) O. Gomis, R. Vilaplana, F. J. Manjon, P.
Rodriguez-Hernandez, E. Perez-Gonzalez, A. Munoz, V. Kucek, and C.
Drasar, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 174305 (2011). * (5) A. Polian, M.
Gauthier, S. M. Souza, D. M. Triches, J. Cardoso de Lima, and T. A.
Grandi, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 113106 (2011). * (6) R. Vilaplana, O.
Gomis, F. J. Manjon, A. Segura, E. Perez-Gonzalez, P.
Rodriguez-Hernandez, A. Munoz, J. Gonzalez, V. Marin-Borras, V.
Munoz-Sanjose, C. Drasar, and V. Kucek, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 104112
(2011). * (7) G. K. Pradhan, A. Bera, P. Kumar, D. V. S. Muthu, and A.
K. Sood, Solid State Commun. **152**, 284 (2012). * (8) S. M. Souza, C.
M. Poffo, D. M. Triches, J. C. de Lima, T. A. Grandi, A. Polian, and M.
Gauthier, Phys. B (Amsterdam, Neth.) **407**, 3781 (2012). * (9) F. J.
Manjon, R. Vilaplana, O. Gomis, E. Perez-Gonzalez, D. Santamaria-Perez,
V. Marin-Borras, A. Segura, J. Gonzalez, P. Rodriguez-Hernandez, A.
Munoz, C. Drasar, V. Kucek, and V. Munoz-Sanjose, Phys. Status Solidi B
**250**, 669 (2013). * (10) J. K. Zhang, C. L. Liu, X. Zhang, F. Ke, Y.
H. Han, G. Peng, Y. Z. Ma, and C. X. Gao, Appl. Phys. Lett. **103**,
052102 (2013). * (11) A. Bera, K. Pal, D. V. S. Muthu, U. V. Waghmare,
and A. K. Sood, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **28**, 105401 (2016). * (12)
K. Matsubayashi, T. Terai, J. S. Zhou, and Y. Uwatoko, Phys. Rev. B
**90**, 125126 (2014). * (13) J. Zhu, J. L. Zhang, P. P. Kong, S. J.
Zhang, X. H. Yu, J. L. Zhu, Q. Q. Liu, X. Li, R. C. Yu, R. Ahuja, W. G.
Yang, G. Y. Shen, H. K. Mao, H. M. Weng, X. Dai, Z. Fang, Y. S. Zhao,
and C. Q. Jin, Sci. Rep. **3**, 2016 (2013). * (14) P. P. Kong, J. L.
Zhang, S. J. Zhang, J. Zhu, Q. Q. Liu, R. C. Yu, Z. Fang, C. Q. Jin, W.
G. Yang, X. H. Yu, J. L. Zhu, and Y. S. Zhao, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**25**, 362204 (2013). * (15) K. Kirshenbaum, P. S. Syers, A. P. Hope,
N. P. Butch, J. R. Jeffries, S. T. Weir, J. J. Hamlin, M. B. Maple, Y.
K. Vohra, and J. Paglione, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 087001 (2013). *
(16) J. L. Zhang, S. J. Zhang, H. M. Weng, W. Zhang, L. X. Yang, Q. Q.
Liu, S. M. Feng, X. C. Wang, R. C. Yu, L. Z. Cao, L. Wang, W. G. Yang,
H. Z. Liu, W. Y. Zhao, S. C. Zhang, X. Dai, Z. Fang, and C. Q. Jin,
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **108**, 24 (2011). * (17) C. Zhang, L. L.
Sun, Z. Y. Chen, X. J. Zhou, Q. Wu, W. Yi, J. Guo, X. L. Dong, and Z. X.
Zhao, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 140504(R) (2011). * (18) M. Einaga, A.
Ohmura, A. Nakayama, F. Ishikawa, Y. Yamada, and S. Nakano, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 092102 (2011). * (19) J. G. Zhao, H. Z. Liu, L. Ehm, Z. Q. Chen,
S. Sinogeikin, Y. S. Zhao, and G. D. Gu, Inorg. Chem. **50**, 11291
(2011).

* [20] Y. M. Ma, G. T. Liu, P. W. Zhu, H. Wang, X. Wang, Q. L. Cui, J.
Liu, and Y. M. Ma, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **24**, 475403 (2012). *
[21] Z. H. Yu, L. Wang, Q. Y. Hu, J. G. Zhao, S. Yan, K. Yang, S.
Sinogeikin, G. D. Gu, and H. K. Mao, Sci. Rep. **5**, 15939 (2015). *
[22] H. Cheng, J. R. Zhang, Y. C. Li, G. Li, and X. D. Li, J. Appl.
Phys. **121**, 225902 (2017). * [23] I. M. Lifshitz, Sov. Phys. JETP
**11**, 1130 (1960). * [24] J. G. Checkelsky, Y. S. Hor, M. H. Liu, D.
X. Qu, R. J. Cava, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 246601
(2009). * [25] Y. L. Chen, J. G. Analytis, J. H. Chu, Z. K. Liu, S. K.
Mo, X. L. Qi, H. J. Zhang, D. H. Lu, X. Dai, Z. Fang, S. C. Zhang, I. R.
Fisher, Z. Hussain, and Z. X. Shen, Science **325**, 178 (2009). * [26]
D. X. Qu, Y. S. Hor, J. Xiong, R. J. Cava, and N. P. Ong, Science
**329**, 821 (2010). * [27] S. K. Kushwaha, I. Pletikosic, T. Liang, A.
Gyenis, S. H. Lapidus, Y. Tian, H. Zhao, K. S. Burch, J. J. Lin, W. D.
Wang, H. W. Ji, A. V. Fedorov, A. Yazdani, N. P. Ong, T. Valla, and R.
J. Cava, Nat. Commun. **7**, 11456 (2016). * [28] S. K. Kushwaha, Q. D.
Gibson, J. Xiong, I. Pletikosic, A. P. Weber, A. V. Fedorov, N. P. Ong,
T. Valla, and R. J. Cava, J. Appl. Phys. **115**, 143708 (2014). * [29]
See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.97.174516 for
additional experimental (single-crystal XRD, powder XRD, EDX, and Raman)
information. * [30] C. Park, D. Popov, D. Ikuta, C. L. Lin, C.
Kenney-Benson, E. Rod, A. Bommannavar, and G. Shen, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**86**, 072205 (2015). * [31] C. Prescher and V. B. Prakapenka, High
Pressure Res. **35**, 223 (2015). * [32] B. A. Hunter, REITCA–A visual
Rietveld program, International Union of Crystallography Commission on
Powder Diffraction Newsletter No. 20 (Summer 1998),
http://www.rietica.org. * [33] H. K. Mao, J. Xu, and P. M. Bell, J.
Geophys. Res. **91**, 4673 (1986). * [34] J. Xiong, Y. K. Luo, Y. H.
Khoo, S. Jia, R. J. Cava, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 045314
(2012). * [35] O. Pavlosiuk, D. Kaczorowski, and P. Wisniewski, Sci.
Rep. **5**, 9158 (2015). * [36] H.-T. He, G. Wang, T. Zhang, I.-K. Sou,
G. K. L. Wong, J.-N. Wang, H.-Z. Lu, S.-Q. Shen, and F.-C. Zhang, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **106**, 166805 (2011). * [37] H. T. He, B. K. Li, H. C. Liu,
X. Guo, Z. Y. Wang, M. H. Xie, and J. N. Wang, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**100**, 032105 (2012). * [38] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [39] F. Birch, Phys. Rev.
**71**, 809 (1947). * [40] V. Rajaji, P. S. Malavi, S. S. R. K. C.
Yamijala, Y. A. Sorb, U. Dutta, S. N. Guin, B. Joseph, S. K. Pati, S.
Karmakar, K. Biswas, and C. Narayana, Appl. Phys. Lett. **109**, 171903
(2016). * [41] V. Rajaji, U. Dutta, P. C. Sreeparvathy, S. C. Sarma, Y.
A. Sorb, B. Joseph, S. Sahoo, S. C. Peter, V. Kanchana, and C. Narayana,
Phys. Rev. B **97**, 085107 (2018). * [42] Y. H. Zhou, X. L. Chen, R. R.
Zhang, J. F. Shao, X. F. Wang, C. An, Y. Zhou, C. Y. Park, W. Tong, L.
Pi, Z. R. Yang, C. J. Zhang, and Y. H. Zhang, Phys. Rev. B **93**,
144514 (2016).
