# Anisotropic superconducting properties of MgB₂ single crystals probed

by in-plane electrical transport measurements

Yu. Eltsev

S. Lee

K. Nakao

N. Chikumoto

S. Tajima

N. Koshizuka

and M. Murakami

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, ISTEC, 10-13, Shinomone 1-chome,
Koto-ku, Tokyo 135-0062, Japan

###### Abstract

We report on the study of the electronic anisotropy of the MgB₂
superconductor using the in-plane resistivity measurements in the
magnetic field applied perpendicular and parallel to Mg and B planes of
MgB₂ single crystals. The results show the temperature dependent
anisotropy of the upper critical field with the anisotropy ratio
γ=H_(c, 21)/H_(c, 21) increasing from 2.2 close to T_(c) up to about 3
below 30 K. Our estimation of the in-plane and out-of-plane coherence
length of about ξ_(sd)(0)=68 A and ξ_(c)(0)=23 A and the electronic
mean-free path l_(ab)= 240 A and l_(z)=60 A, respectively, indicates
MgB₂ single crystal approaches the clean limit type-II superconductor.

pacs: 01.103/PhysRevB.65.140501 + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

The superconductivity at about 39 K in magnesium diboride[1] has
stimulated considerable interest in the study of various properties of
this compound. Observation of the boron isotope effect[2] as well as
band structure calculations[3] indicate phonon-mediated
superconductivity in MgB₂. Transport and magnetization measurements of
the upper critical field[4, 5, 6] and critical current density[9, 10] of
MgB₂ revealed properties typical for a type-II superconductor. Since the
crystal structure of MgB₂ consists of alternating Mg and B sheets, the
electronic anisotropy of this material may be expected. Clear signs of
the anisotropic nature of MgB₂ has been demonstrated from measurements
performed on thin films,[11, 12] aligned crystallites,[13] and fine
powder[14] samples. However, results obtained by various groups give
very different estimations of H_(c, 2) anisotropy ratio ranging from γ =
1.7−2 obtained for thin films[11, 12] and aligned crystallites[13] up to
γ= 6−9 for randomly oriented powder samples.[14]

Recently Lee _et al._ reported on the growth of submillimeter MgB₂
single crystals under high pressure in the Mg-B-N system.[15] The
availability of such crystals opens a nice opportunity for direct probe
of anisotropic behavior of the MgB₂ superconductor, and from resistivity
measurements performed in Ref. [15] the upper critical field anisotropy
ratio of about 2.7 was estimated.[16] Here we present results of the
detailed study of the in-plane transport properties of MgB₂ single
crystals in magnetic field up to 6 T applied perpendicular to Mg and B
planes (H_(⊥)) and up to 16 T in parallel field orientation (H_(∥)). The
obtained results allow one to determine the upper critical fields and,
thus, to get information about superconducting coherence lengths and
superconducting state anisotropy.

Magnetism diboride single crystals have been grown in the quasirerary
Mg-MgB₂-BN system at high pressure and temperature of 4−6 GPa and
1400−1700 ^(∘)C, respectively. The MgB₂ precursor was prepared from
magnesium powder (99.9

In Fig. 1, we present zero-field temperature dependence of the
resistance for several MgB₂ single crystals. The inset in Fig. 1 is an
enlarged view of the resistivity data near T_(c). The results for three
different samples demonstrate remarkable reproducibility giving a proof
of high quality of our single

Figure 1: Normalized zero-field temperature dependence of the in-plane
resistivity for three different MgB₂ single crystals measured at current
0.5 mA. Inset: Zero-field resistive superconducting transitions for the
same crystals.

crystals. In particular, all samples show sharp superconducting
transitions at T_(c) , defined as the resistivity onset with criterion
of 2

The characteristic results of our experiment are shown in Fig. 2.
Plotted are resistive superconducting transitions for sample 1 at
various magnetic fields up to 6 T for H perpendicular to Mg and B planes
(upper panel) and up to 9 T in H∥ab orientation (lower panel). In both
orientations the transport current direction is perpendicular to
magnetic field. Before we start to describe the anisotropic properties
of MgB₂ single crystal, let us briefly consider peculiar voltage noise
appearing in H∥c field orientation in the low temperature part of the
superconducting transition at T< 15 K (see upper panel of Fig. 2).
Although the maximal value of noise level was found to decrease at
smaller excitation currents (not shown), this noisy voltage response was
clearly seen at the lowest value of transport current I = 0.2 mA (J ≈ 4
A/cm²) used in our study. Very similar behavior was also found in the
measurements on samples 2 and 3, thus, indicating its intrinsic origin,
probably related to the weak pinning properties of MgB₂ single crystal.
However, for the context of the present paper, we note that this voltage
noise does not affect our observation of anisotropic superconducting
properties and defer its further discussion.

From different transition temperatures at a given value of magnetic
field, the anisotropic behavior of MgB₂ single crystal is clearly seen
in Fig. 2. In particular, increasing H∥c results in a much more rapid
T_(c) decrease compared to H∥ab field geometry. At H_(⊥) = 6 T the
superconducting transition is almost completely suppressed above T = 4.2
K, while in parallel field of the same magnitude it was found around 25
K. Also, with the increase of magnetic field the structure of
superconducting transition itself changes in a very different way in two
field orientations. For H∥ab the effect of magnetic field is to shift
the transition to lower temperatures with a relatively small ΔT
increase. On the contrary, in H∥c orientation, at fields of about 1-1.5
T we found a drastic change of the shape of the superconducting
transition. Figure 3 illustrates this observation in more detail.
Plotted are voltage response vs temperature for sample 3 taken at
various currents at H = 1 T (upper panel) and H = 2.5 T (lower panel).
At H = 1 T the superconducting transition is extremely sharp at low
currents, while at H = 2.5 T the voltage response displays a more
gradual behavior with temperature. This observation resembles
transformation of the superconducting tran

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the voltage response at various
currents in magnetic field of 1 T (upper panel) and 2.5 T (lower panel)
applied perpendicular to Mg and B planes.

Figure 2: Upper panel: Superconducting transitions at various magnetic
fields of (from right to left) 0, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4,
4.5, 5, 5.5, and 6 T applied perpendicular to Mg and B planes. Lower
panel: Superconducting transitions in parallel fields of (from right to
left) 0, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 T. In both field
orientations I = 0.5 mA and its direction is perpendicular to the
magnetic field. Different transition temperatures for a given applied
field demonstrate the upper critical field anisotropy of MgB₂ single
crystal.

sition near the critical point in the melting line of "clean"
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) single crystals, where the sharp resistance step
associated with the flux line lattice melting below the critical point
was replaced by a smooth continuous transition at higher fields.[17]
From both panels in Fig. 3 one can also see strongly non-Ohmic behavior
developing in the entire temperature region below T_(c) . We rule out
the possibility that this nonlinearity may be due to simple thermal
effects since in measurements of zero-field transitions linear voltage
response was found in the same range of excitation currents. We note
that the non-Ohmic behavior found in MgB₂ single crystals is in striking
contrast to the linear voltage response observed in the broad region of
the vortex-liquid state above the melting transition in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
single crystals.[18, 19]

Now we discuss the magnetic phase diagram of MgB₂ single crystal deduced
from our in-plane transport measurements (see Fig. 4). Since for sample
1 superconducting transition was measured by sweeping temperature at
fixed magnetic fields, for each field three data points are shown as a
function of temperature: resistivity onset, transition midpoint, and
temperature of vanishing resistivity. On the other hand, for sample 2,
measurements have been performed at fixed temperatures in a pulsed
field, and the same three points on the superconducting transition are
shown in dependence on field. As mentioned above, we associate
resistivity onset with the upper critical field, H_(c2)(T). The data for
both single crystals demonstrate relatively close agreement. Slightly
lower values of the upper critical fields for sample 2 may be due to
possible field misalignment from the _ab_ planes in pulsed magnetic
field experiment.[20] For both field orientations H_(c2)(T) dependence
shows distinct positive curvature extending from T_(c) down to
approximately 30 K. Similar positive curvature of H_(c2)(T) dependence
was recently observed on dense MgB₂ wires[7] as well as sintered
polycrystalline samples.[8, 5] With the further decrease of temperature
H_(c2±)(T) as well as H_(c2±)(T) dependence display linear increase and
below 15-20 K start to saturate. The upper critical field anisotropy
ratio, γ=H_(c2±)/H_(c2±) = (m_(c)/m_(ab))^(0.5), calculated for sample 1
at different temperatures, shows temperature dependence increasing from
γ =2.2 close to T_(c) up to γ=3 at T = 30 K. At lower temperatures γ
remains nearly unchanged. The obtained value of the electronic
anisotropy γ≈ 3 places the MgB₂ compound in between strongly anisotropic
high-T_(c) superconductors with anisotropy ratio ranging from γ= 5-7 for
optimally doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) up to γ=50-200 for Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ)
(Ref. [21]) and slightly anisotropic (γ= 1-1.15) other layered boride
superconductor RNi₂B₂C (R= N, Lu) with crystal structure composed of
alternating RC and Ni₂B₂ sheets.[22]

From the available data for sample 1 we estimate H_(c2±)(0) = 7.0-7.5 T
and H_(c2±)(0) = γH_(c2±)(0) = 21-22 T. According to the relations for
anisotropic superconductors H_(c2±)(T) = ϕ₀/(2 πξ_(ab)[2]), where ϕ₀ is
the flux quantum and γ=H_(c2±)(0)/H_(c2±)(0) = ξ_(ab)(0)/ξ_(c)(0), this
corresponds to the in-plane and out-of-plane coherence length ξ_(ab)(0)
= 68 A and ξ_(c)(0) = 23 A, respectively. Using normal state resistivity
measurements of ρ(40 K) = 1 μΩ cm, the in-plane Fermi velocity of
4.9×10⁷ cm/s (Ref. [3]), and a carrier density of 6.7×10²²e/cm³ for two
free electrons per unit cell, we evaluate the in-plane electronic
mean-free path of about 240 A near T_(c) . The out-of-plane resistivity
for MgB₂ single crystals is about four times higher compared to the
in-plane one.[23] Given the out-of-plane Fermi velocity of 4.76×10⁷ cm/s
(Ref. [3]) we get the out-of-plane mean-free path of about 60 A close to
T_(c) . Thus, comparable values of coherence length and electronic
mean-free path indicate our MgB₂ single crystal as approaching clean
limit type-II superconductor.

Finally, we discuss peculiar upward curvature in H_(c2)(T) dependence
observed for MgB₂ single crystals near T_(c) . Similar positive
curvature in H_(c2)(T) has been previously reported for intermetallic
borocarbides.[22, 24, 25] It was successfully described within the
effective two-band model for type-II superconductors in the clean
limit.[24] As mentioned above, MgB₂ single crystal is also close to the
clean limit. On the other hand, some differences between MgB₂ and
borocarbides should be noted. In RNi₂B₂C (R = Y, Lu) compounds H_(c2)(T)
dependence displays the same positive curvature for both parallel and
perpendicular magnetic field orientations, and the out-of-plane
anisotropy of H_(c2) does not depend on temperature.[22, 25] In striking
contrast, in MgB₂ the upward curvature in H_(c2)(T) is much more
pronounced in parallel magnetic field orientation compared to
perpendicular (see inset in Fig. 4). In the temperature range above 0.7
T/T_(c)H_(c2)(T) dependence for both field orientations may be well
fitted by the expression

H_(c2)(T)/H_(c2)(0) = A(1 − T/T_(c))^(α),
(1)

Figure 4: Magnetic phase diagram of MgB₂ single crystal deduced from the
in-plane temperature-dependent (sample 1) and field-dependent (sample 2)
resistivity data as described in text. For sample 1 resistivity onset
and transition endpoint are vertical bars and symbols are midpoints of
the transition as a function of temperature. For sample 2 horizontal
bars and symbols show resistivity onset, completion, and transition
midpoint as a function of magnetic field, respectively. For both samples
the solid lines demonstrate transition width. The dotted lines are
guides for the eye and represent temperature dependence of parallel
(H_(c2±)) and perpendicular (H_(c2±)) upper critical field for sample 1.
The dashed lines represent a linear fit to H_(c2±)(T) and H_(c2±)(T) at
intermediate temperatures. Inset: H_(c2)(T)/H_(c2)(0) vs T/T_(c) near
T_(c) for magnetic field parallel and perpendicular to Mg and B sheets
(T_(c) = 38.5 K, H_(c21)(0) = 21 T, H_(c2±)(0) = 7.3 T). Lines represent
fit to Eq. (1).

with very different fitting parameters A and _a_: A = 1.225, a = 1.185
and A = 1.62, a = 1.59 for _H_|_c_ and _H_|_ab_, respectively.
Furthermore, due to the different temperature dependence of _H_c_2|2
