Effect of HgI₂ intercalation on Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y): Interlayer coupling
effect

Myoung-Kwang Bae, Mun-Seog Kim, Sung-Ik Lee*

Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology, San
31 Hyojadong, Pohang, Kyungbuk, 790-784, Republic of Korea

Nam-Gyu Park, Seong-Ju Hwang, Dong-Hoon Kim, and Jin-Ho Choy*

Department of Chemistry, Center for Molecular Catalysis, College of
Natural Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul 151-742, Republic of
Korea

10 November 1995

###### Abstract

By intercalating large HgI₂ molecules between the Bi₂O₂ layers in
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) , the distance between the CuO₂ blocks was
significantly extended up to 7.2 A. The superconducting properties of
this system were measured in various magnetic fields applied
perpendicular to the CuO₂ planes. This system showed large positional
fluctuation of the vortex even far below the transition temperature due
to the reduction of dimensionality. The change of the thermodynamic
parameters is well explained by the model of Josephson-coupled
superconductivity. However, the interlayer coupling strength did not
change the transition temperature drastically, which does not support
the suggestion of Wheatley, Hsu, and Anderson of coherent hopping of the
valence bond pair between the CuO₂ layers.

## I Introduction

Although it is well known that the superconductivity of cuprates is very
much related to CuO₂ planes, details of the interlayer coupling effect
are not well understood. Since the out-of-plane coherence length ξ_(c)
at T = 0 K is smaller than the interlayer spacing, there is a
dimensional crossover phenomena, where ξ_(c) is comparable to the
interlayer distance.[1] The crossover temperature could depend on the
interlayer coupling strength. Thus, if this coupling strength can be
controlled, it will be very informative in understanding the
relationship between interlayer coupling and superconductivity.

Recently, it was reported that a large molecule of HgX₂ (_X_ =Br, I)
could be intercalated between double Bi₂O₂ layers of high-T_(c)
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) (Bi2212) superconductors.[2] According to magnetic
susceptibility and powder x-ray diffraction measurements, it was found
that the HgX₂ intercalation dropped T_(c) only by a small fraction even
with the remarkable lattice expansion along the c axis (Δ ≈ 7.2 A). Such
results are different from those of iodine intercalation,[3, 4] with
relatively larger T_(c) depressions and smaller lattice expansions.
Therefore, since we can extend the distance between the CuO₂ blocks by
the HgX₂ intercalation, this system would be an excellent example of
obtaining the relationship between interblock coupling and
superconductivity.

For the case of iodine intercalation, many efforts have been made to
explain the effect of intercalation on superconductivity.[3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
Actually, superconductivity can be affected by the interlayer Josephson
coupling due to the change of the interlayer distance of the CuO₂ layer
and/or the modification of the electronic structure of the CuO₂ layer.
However, instead of Josephson coupling, Wheatley, Hsu, and Anderson[8]
(WHA) accepted the coherent hopping of valence bond pairs between CuO₂
planes. The phase coherence between valence bonds is achieved by pairing
the holons. But the applicability of this model to the intercalation
compounds has not yet been confirmed because an argument on two possible
effects of intercalation, hole doping and the weakening of interblock
coupling on the T_(c) depression, has remained unresolved for the case
of iodine intercalation.[3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

In this paper, we have prepared grain-aligned
(HgI₂)_(0.9)Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) (HgI₂-Bi2212) and measured its
magnetization in various magnetic fields applied along the c axis, and
compared it with that of pristine Bi2212. Since HgI₂ intercalation
results in a remarkable lattice expansion, it is expected that the
dimensionality of the system could be reduced and the thermodynamic
parameters, such as the penetration depth and the Ginzburg-Landau
parameter, will be significantly modified.

As expected, a reduction of the interlayer coupling strength and vastly
enhanced positional fluctuation of the vortex were observed in the
magnetization. The measured thermodynamic parameters are well explained
by the change of the distance between superconducting CuO₂ layers,[9,
10] but the change of T_(c) is too small to support the coherent hopping
of the valance bond pair suggested by Wheatley, Hsu, and Anderson.[8]

## II Experiment

An HgI₂-Bi2212 compound was prepared by vapor transport reaction between
the HgI₂ molecule and the pristine Bi2212. The polycrystalline Bi2212
pellet and mercuric iodine (mole ratio of 1:5), together with free
iodine [_P_(1**2**) ≈ 1.5 atm] as a transporting agent, were heated in
an evacuated Pyrex tube. Details of the sample preparation were given in
the previous report.[2] Formation of the HgI₂ intercalate and its
stoichiometry were confirmed by powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) and
thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) using the DuPont 2000 Thermal Analysis
Station and electron probe microanalysis (EPMA), respectively.

To clarify the intrinsic anisotropic thermodynamic param eters, Bi2212
and HgI₂-Bi2212 were ground down to less than 20 μm, and were aligned
simultaneously inside of the epoxy in a magnetic field of 7 T for 9 h.
The resulting samples were examined by x-ray diffraction in Fig. 1. The
(00_l_) peaks predominant in the XRD data confirm that the grains are
oriented with the c axis along the applied field.

The shielding [zero-field-cooled (ZFC)] and Meissner [field-cooled (FC)]
magnetization at 10 G for these samples is shown in Fig. 2. The
shielding values at 10 K were 67

The magnetic measurements were performed in a Quantum Designs
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer for
fields applied parallel to the c axis. Both background signals that
originated from the epoxy and the holder were carefully subtracted.

## III Result and Discussion

According to XRD analysis, the c axis cell parameter of HgI₂-Bi2212 is
44.9 A, which corresponds to an increase of 14.3 A compared to that of
pristine Bi2212. Since there are two intercalated layers of HgI₂ for
each unit cell of Bi2212, the extent of lattice expansion per each
intercalate layer corresponds to 7.2 A, which is almost twice that of
the basal increment of iodine intercalation (Δd = 3.6 A). Although
mercuric iodide intercalation remarkably expands the c axis in Bi2212,
it has little effect on the in-plane a and b parameters.

The XRD, after the grain alignment, experiment confirmed that the
polycrystalline intercalate was well developed along the (00_l_) planes
(Fig. 1). Based on the observed (00_l_) XRD patterns, a one-dimensional
Fourier map from the structure factors F_((00l)) was calculated. As can
be seen in Fig.

Figure 3: Schematic structural model for grain-aligned HgI₂-intercalated
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) along with the one-dimensional Fourier map, which is
based on the best fit to the observed XRD patterns.

Figure 2: The shield (ZFC, open symbols) and Meissner (FC, solid
symbols) magnetizations of grain-aligned Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) (circle) and
(HgI₂)_(0.5)Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) (squares) at H = 10 G applied along the c
axis.

3, the one-dimensional Fourier map clearly shows that the mercuric
iodide molecule is intercalated in between the Bi2O2 double layer and
the HgI2 molecular axis is tilted with an angle of 48^(∘) with respect
to the c axis. Based upon the electron density map, the schematic
structure is represented (Fig. 3).

Figure 4 demonstrates the TGA curve of the HgI2 intercalated sample for
the temperature range between 20 and 800 ^(∘)C. The total weight loss at
800 ^(∘)C is 21.2

This chemically well-defined sample is used for the comparative study on
the magnetization of Bi2212 and HgI2-Bi2212. For the detailed analysis,
the vortex fluctuation model of Bulaevskii, Ledvij, and Kogan [11] (BLK)
and the Hao-Clem model [12, 13] have been used. In the vortex
fluctuation model, positional fluctuation of vortices, i.e., thermal
distortion of two-dimensional pancake vortices out of the straight
stacks near _T_c , is considered. In the model of Hao and Clem, the free
energy of the normal cores is also included but the effect of positional
fluctuations is not. Thus, this model is valid at a temperature somewhat
lower than _T_c , where the vortex fluctuation is not dominant. Both
theories are valid at the limited range of temperature. A proper
temperature range was chosen for the analysis.

BLK (Ref. [11]) calculated the free energy of a mixed state in the frame
of the Lawrence-Doniach model using a harmonic approximation. For the
anisotropic ratio g≫1 (γ² = m_(c)/m_(ab) is the superpair effective mass
ratio), for the applied magnetic field H parallel to c axis, and
B_(α) ≈ ϕ₀/s²γ² ≪  H ≪  H_(c2), they obtained the magnetization from the
free energy, which includes the extra contribution of entropy due to
thermally distorted pancakes,

$$-M(T,H)\!=\!\frac{\phi_{0}}{32\pi^{2}\lambda_{ab}^{2}}\!\!\!\!\  from the positional fluctuation of vortices. From Eq. (1) the slope \(\partial M/\partial\) ln\(H\) is easily calculated,

\[\frac{\partial M}{\partial\,\ln\!H} = \frac{\phi_{0}}{32\pi^{2}\lambda_{ab}^{2}(T)}-\frac{k_{B}T}{\phi_{ 0}s}$$
(2)
$$= \frac{\phi_{0}}{32\pi^{2}\lambda_{ab}^{2}(T)}-\frac{|M^{*}|}{\ln (\eta\alpha/\sqrt{e})}\frac{T}{T^{*}},$$

where M^(*) is the magnetization value independent of the applied field,
or ∂M/∂ lnH=0 at T^(*),

$$-M^{*}\!=\!-M^{*}(T^{*})\!=\!\frac{k_{B}T^{*}}{\phi_{0}s}\ln\!\frac{\eta\alpha} {\sqrt{e}}.$$
(3)

s is the distance between centers of two adjacent CuO₂ blocks. From the
XRD analysis, s is found to be 15.3 $\AA$ for pristine Bi2212 and 22.5
$\AA$ for HgI₂-Bi2212.5 For the large anisotropic cuprate, it is
reasonable to take $\ln(\eta\alpha/\sqrt{e})$ =1.[15]

Figure 5 displays the magnetization of Bi2212 and HgI₂-Bi2212 for fields
up to 5 T along the c axis. Both materials exhibit the field-independent
magnetization M^(*) predicted by BLK. For pristine Bi2212,
M^(*) =  − 0.099 ± 0.009 G occurs at T^(*) = 80.7 ± 0.3 K, and for
HgI₂-Bi2212, M^(*) =  − 0.083 ± 0.005 G at T^(*) = 79.2 ± 0.3 K. Using
isothermal magnetizations for 0.3 ≈ H ≈ 5 T in the reversible region, we
evaluate the experimental slopes ∂M/∂ lnH vs T and determine λ_(ab)(T)
using Eq. (2) (Refs. 14,16) (Fig. 6).

Hao and Clem’s original idea is to use a variational method to minimize
the Ginzburg-Landau free energy of the mixed state for a high-κ type-II
superconductor.[12, 13] In this free energy, the |ψ|⁴ is included. In
the calculation, they also take into account the depression of the order
parameter in the vortex cores. However, this model does not include the
thermodynamic fluctuation in the magnetic fields and is not valid near
T_(c). The temperature dependence of κ and H_(c) can be evaluated using
this model in reversible magnetization. The detailed description of this
approach has been given in Refs. 13, 17. In summary, the general
equation (4) of Ref. 17 was utilized to fit the reversible magnetization
data at each temperature, where the fitting parameters are κ and
critical fields H_(c)(T). The experimental value of κ is determined to
give the smallest deviation of H_(c)(T). And the penetration depth
λ_(ab)(T) and coherence length ξ_(ab)(T) could be extracted from κ and
H_(c)(T). The effect of the superconducting volume fraction from the
magnetic susceptibility at 10 G is included in this analysis by dividing
experimental magnetizations with the superconducting volume fraction.

In Fig. 6 the square symbols exhibit the result of a vortex fluctuation
analysis. Solid lines are from the BCS temperature dependence of
λ_(ab)(T) deduced from the relations
$H_{c2}(T)\!=\!\sqrt{2}\kappa H_{c}(T)$,
$\sqrt{2}H_{c}\!=\!\kappa\,\phi_{0}/2\pi\lambda^{2}$, and the
temperature dependence of H_(c)(T),[12, 13]

$$\frac{H_{c}(T)}{H_{c}(0)} = 1.7369\bigg{[}1-\frac{T}{T_{c}}\bigg{]}\bigg{[}1-0.2730\bigg{(}1 -\frac{T}{T_{c}}\bigg{)}$$
(4)
$$-0.0949\bigg{[}1-\frac{T}{T_{c}}\bigg{)}^{2}\bigg{]}\quad\ (0.7T_{c}\!\approx\!T\!\approx\!T_{c}).$$

The derived value of λ_(ab)(0) from the above formula is 2599 $\AA$ with
T_(c) = 85 K for Bi2212 and 3046 $\AA$ with T_(c) = 84.5 K for
HgI₂-Bi2212. The circles indicate the λ_(ab)(T) calculated from the
London model. The unphysical divergence of the penetration depth below
T_(c) for the London model and Ho-Clem model originates from ignorance
of the positional fluctuation of vortices as indicated by Kogan _et
al._[14, 18, 19, 20, 21] The values of λ_(ab) are not much different
from those of the vortex fluctuation model at low temperature.

It is quite interesting to observe the positional fluctuation of the
vortices from the calculated κ from the Hao-Clem model where this effect
is not considered.[12, 13, 17] The appearance of unphysical parameters
such as λ_(ab), κ could be evidence of the positional fluctuation of the
vortices that is ignored in this fitting. In addition to the
temperature-independent κ used in the Hao-Clem model, κ was also taken
as a fitting parameter because κ usually decreases as

Figure 6: In-plane penetration depth calculated with London model
(circles), vortex fluctuation model (squares), and Hao-Clem model
(triangles), considering a superconducting volume fraction. (a)
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y), (b) (HgI₂)_(0.8)Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y). Solid lines are
fitted curves of the BCS expression.

temperature increases for type-II superconductors.[22] The κ of Bi2212
(Fig. 7) shows the typical behavior of type-II superconductors for T≤60
K. The change of slope and subsequent divergence of κ above 65 K are
artificial and are explained by neglecting the positional fluctuation as
indicated at λ_(ab).

What is the HgI₂ intercalation effect on κ? Again, the same Hao-Clem
model was used with κ as a fitting parameter. It is worthwhile to note
the change of the slope dκ/dT from negative to positive after
intercalation for temperatures below 60 K. The positive dκ/dT for
HgI₂-Bi2212 should be negative, if properly analyzed from the correct
theory which includes both the positional fluctuation and vortex core
contribution. The effect of the large size HgI₂ molecules, which reduce
the dimensionality of the system drastically by increasing the distance
between the CuO₂ blocks, enhances the two-dimensional vortex fluctuation
effect down to 40^(∘) below T_(c). In fact, the omission of the vortex
fluctuation in the Hao-Clem model could be a useful tool, in reverse, to
detect the development of vortex fluctuation for low-dimensional
superconductors.

Then what are the correct thermodynamic parameters? The appropriate
temperature range should be chosen for the analysis. Fortunately, as
seen in Fig. 6, the values of λ_(ab) of Bi2212 from the Hao-Clem model
are almost the same as those of the vortex fluctuation model at
temperature ranges below 70 K. Since vortex fluctuation is strong at
temperatures above 70 K, each analysis at the appropriate temperature
range could give the right thermodynamic parameters of Bi2212. However,
the situation is not simple for HgI₂-Bi2212. The theory of Hao and Clem,
which is valid at low-temperature ranges, is screened by an unusually
strong vortex fluctuation. The combined theory which contains both the
vortex fluctuation and the free energy contributions of the vortex core
is needed.

For the thermodynamic parameters at T=0, we used the results of the
Hao-Clem model and the two-fluid formula H_(c)(T) =
H_(c)(0)[1 − (T/T_(c))²]. From this, we obtained H_(c)(0) = 9753 (8501)
G with T_(c) = 82.2 (83.2) K for Bi2212 (HgI₂-Bi2212). The formulas
H_(c2)(T) = ϕ₀/2 πξ_(ab)² = $\sqrt{2}\,\kappa H_{c}(T)$ and
$\sqrt{2}\,H_{c}$ = κ ϕ₀/2πλ² were used to obtain ξ_(ab)(0) = 9.5 A,
λ_(ab)(0) = 2438 A for Bi2212, ξ_(ab)(0) = 8.6 A, λ_(ab)(0) = 3192 A for
HgI₂-Bi2212. These T_(c) values are slightly less than those obtained by
utilizing the BLK theory and the T_(c) obtained by applying theories
differs from the $T_{c,\,\rm{onset}}$ measured from the 10 G
magnetization. These differences of T_(c) originate from the different
model fittings and different temperature ranges where the model is
valid. This is within the error bar range of the analysis and was
reported before for Bi2212 single crystals[11, 23] and other
compounds[17, 20, 24] (Table 2).

Our λ_(ab)(0) value of 2500 A is larger than the reported values of
1500 - 2150 A.[11, 25, 26, 27] This may come from the different oxygen
contents; i.e., the oxygen contents of ours are not optimized for the
highest superconducting transition temperature compared to the published
samples. Due to this, our Bi2212 might be underdoped and its λ_(ab)(0)
larger than that of the literature as easily seen from Eq. (5) in the
following paragraph.

One important result that must be explained is the ratio of λ_(ab)(0) of
1.24 for HgI₂-Bi2212 to that of the pristine sample. This ratio could be
explained with the Josephson-coupled theory of superconductivity based
on the Lawrence-Doniach model by Clem.[9, 10] In this theory,

$$\uplambda_{ab}=\sqrt{\frac{m_{ab}^{\upkappa}c^{\upkappa}}{4\,\pi n_{s}e^{ \upkappa}}\frac{l}{s}},$$
(5)

where s is the thickness of the Josephson-coupled superconducting layer
and l is the length of the stacking periodicity. If m_(ab)^(κ) and n_(s)
are almost the same before and after the intercalation of inert HgI₂
molecules, then the ratio of 1.24 is sim ply explained by the effect of
the Josephson coupling strength change due to the 47

Now we examine the applicability of the model of Wheatley, Hsu, and
Anderson (WHA) to the intercalation compound. According to the WHA
model, the superconducting transition temperature of Bi2212
superconductors can be expressed as [8]

T_(c) = λ₀ + λ₁,

where λ₀ is the interlayer coupling between the nearest planes
(intrablock coupling) and λ₁ is interlayer coupling between the
next-nearest planes (interblock coupling).

While HgI₂ intercalation has little effect on the intrablock coupling,
the strength of the interblock coupling is remarkably reduced compared
to the case of I₂ intercalation. Considering the larger lattice
expansion of 7.2 A for the HgI₂ intercalate, it is reasonably expected
that HgI₂ intercalation further reduces the interblock coupling with
respect to I₂ intercalation of the 3.6 A expansion. In this respect, the
T_(c) depression upon HgI₂ intercalation is suggested to be more
prominent than that upon iodine intercalation. But the observed T_(c)
depression for the HgI₂ intercalate is even smaller than that for iodine
intercalation, which suggests that the coherence hopping of the valence
bond pair between CuO₂ layers (WHA model) is not a unique mechanism for
the intercalation compounds.

We found that the enhanced positional fluctuation of vortices and the
change of the thermodynamic parameters after the intercalation of the
inert molecule HgI₂ are mainly due to the reduction of the Josephson
coupling originating from the increase of the distance between the CuO₂
blocks. However, the interblock coupling is not critical for the change
of the transition temperature.

## IV Conclusion

The superconducting properties of HgI₂-intercalated Bi2212 were studied.
Several thermodynamic parameters were obtained by comparing the theories
suggested by Bulaevskii _et al._ and Hao _et al._ The enhanced effect of
fluctuation and the change of the thermodynamic parameters after
intercalation of HgI₂ were successfully explained. Moreover, it was
found that HgI₂ intercalation rarely affects the superconducting
transition temperature of Bi2212 while it drastically increases the
c-axis parameters. The reduction of the interlayer coupling strength
explained the observed thermodynamic properties, but was not consistent
with the coherent hopping of the valence bond pair between the CuO₂
superconducting layers suggested by Wheatley, Hsu, and Anderson.

###### Acknowledgements.

We wish to express appreciation for the financial support of the Korean
Ministry of Education, Basic Science Research Centers of Pohang
University of Science and Technology, Agency of Defense Development of
Korea, Korea Science and Engineering Foundation, and the Korea Ministry
of Science and Technology for the high-T_(c) superconductivity research.

## References

* [1] S. L. Cooper and K. E. Grey, in _Physical Properties of High
Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D. Ginsberg (World Scientific,
Singapore, 1994), Vol. IV, p. 61. * [2] J. H. Choy _et al._, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. **116**, 11 564 (1994). * [3] X. D. Xiang _et al._, Nature
**348**, 145 (1990). * [4] X. D. Xiang _et al._, Science **254**, 1487
(1991). * [5] J. H. Choy _et al._, J. Solid State Chem. **102**, 284
(1993). * [6] D. Pooke _et al._, Physica C **198**, 349 (1992). * [7] J.
Ma _et al._, Physica C **227**, 371 (1994). * [8] J. M. Wheatley, T. C.
Hsu, and P. W. Anderson, Nature **333**, 121 (1988). * [9] J. R. Clem,
Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7837 (1991). * [10] J. R. Clem, Physica C
**162-164**, 1137 (1989). * [11] L. N. Bulaevskii, M. Ledvij, and V. G.
Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 3773 (1992). * [12] Z. Hao and J. R.
Clem, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2371 (1991). * [13] Z. Hao _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2844 (1991). * [14] V. G. Kogan _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **70**, 1870 (1993). * [15] Z. Tesanovic _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **69**, 3563 (1992). * [16] M. K. Bae _et al._, Physica C **228**,
195 (1994). * [17] M. S. Kim, M. K. Bae, W. C. Lee, and S. I. Lee, Phys.
Rev. B **51**, 3261 (1995). * [18] Q. Li _et al._, Physica B
**194-196**, 1501 (1994). * [19] Q. Li _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **46**,
3195 (1992). * [20] Q. Li, M. Suenaga, T. Kimura, and K. Kishio, Phys.
Rev. B **47**, 2854 (1993). * [21] D. N. Zheng, A. M. Campbell, and R.
S. Liu, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 6519 (1993). * [22] A. L. Fetter and P. C.
Hohenberg, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. Parks (Dekker, New York,
1969), p. 817. * [23] J. C. Martinez _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**,
2276 (1992). * [24] J. R. Thompson _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 14 031
(1993). * [25] L. Zhang, J. Liu, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **45**,
4978 (1992). * [26] G. Triscone _et al._, Physica C **224**, 263
(1994). * [27] A. Schilling, R. Jin, J. D. Guo, and H. R. Ott, Physica B
**194-196**, 2185 (1994).
