# Testing models of the symmetry of the superconducting pairing state

by low-temperature electron irradiation of an untwinned single crystal
of YBa2Cu3O7-8

J. Giapintzakis

D. M. Ginsberg

Department of Physics and Materials Research Laboratory, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,

1110 West Green Street, Urbana, Illinois 61801

M. A. Kirk

S. Ockers

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439

5 July 1994

###### Abstract

We have carried out _in situ_ resistivity measurements in a high-voltage
electron microscope to determine how the superconducting transition
temperature _T_c and the resistivity _r_(_T_) change with
low-temperature electron irradiation. We find that point defects
introduced by oxygen displacements from the CuO2 planes make the
dominant contribution to the irradiation-induced suppression of _T_c. We
find that _dT_c/_d_r_ is   -0.30 +- 0.04 K/_m_d_ cm. Analysis of this
result indicates the effect of strongly anisotropic superconductivity,
and rules out isotropic _s_-wave pairing. Even though our data cannot
determine whether the pairing symmetry is s or d wave, they provide a
test for further theoretical developments.

## Introduction

One of the most intriguing problems still facing theorists and
experimentalists in high-_T_c superconductivity is identifying the
mechanism of superconductivity. Many theories claim to explain it, but
none has gained general acceptance. These theories can be divided into
two major groups, based on the suggested symmetry of the pairing state.1
One group supports _d_-wave pairing symmetry, while the other supports
_s_-wave symmetry. We need to eliminate one of these possibilities. To
this end, several experiments have been carried out. Some of them,
however, suffer from difficulties of experimental techniques or
interpretation.2,3

Recently, Radtke _et al._4 have presented predictions of _T_c as a
function of planar resistivity caused by nonmagnetic impurities in a
_T_c = 90 K _d_-wave superconductor and in an isotropic _s_-wave
superconductor. Based on these predictions, they suggested an experiment
which could help find the symmetry of the pairing state. In this paper
we report the results of this suggested experiment.

We have used electron irradiation to introduce the desired electronic
scattering in a systematic and controlled way. By carefully selecting
the energy of the electrons in the beam, we displaced only oxygen atoms.
By irradiating at low temperatures (  90 K) and measuring the
resistivity _in situ_, up to T = 160 K, we have prevented these
irradiation-induced defects from migrating and recovering or clustering.
Thus, we are dealing with point defects. This technique has ensured that
the calculation of the concentration of these defects is accurate. Also,
by using a twin-free sample and measuring the _r_aa element of the
resistivity tensor, we have probed the contribution of only the oxygen
defects on the CuO2 planes. (The a axis is in-plane and perpendicular to
the Cu-O chains.) Finally, we have separated the contribution to the
irradiation-induced suppression of _T_c caused by the oxygen defects on
the CuO2 planes from that caused by the oxygen defects on the chains.

## SAMPLE

High-quality single crystals of YBa2Cu3O7-8 (YBCO) were grown in
yttria-stabilized zirconia crucibles by using the self-flux growth
technique. The method of sample preparation (including growth and
oxygenation) is described in detail elsewhere.5 The sample used in this
study was cleaved to a rectangular shape with dimensions of
1.11x0.44x0.009 mm3. The as-grown sample had many twin boundaries. They
were removed by applying a uniaxial stress at 410 degC in flowing oxygen
on the hot stage of an optical microscope having crossed polarizers, as
described elsewhere.6 The crystal was configured for _a_-axis
resistivity measurements by applying the stress in the long direction.
The crystal was then reannealed to relieve possible strains introduced
by that procedure. The transition temperature of the annealed sample was
90.5 K, with a superconducting transition width of less than 0.8 K in an
applied field of 1 Oe. The sample’s resistivity at 100 K was 45.6 _m_d_
cm, one of the lowest values reported in the literature.7

## RESISTIVITY MEASUREMENT

The resistivity of the sample was measured with the four-probe
technique. Gold stripes were evaporated onto the sample through a mask
made of glass microslides. These stripes had a width of approximately 30
_m_m, and they extended across the whole sample. The distance between
the voltage contacts was 0.62 mm. Annealing the sample at 410 degC for
24 h in flowing oxygen made the gold pads stick to the surface, and
reduced the contact resistance from   1 kO to less than 0.4 a.

Only the ends of the sample were mounted on two small pieces of MgO with
silver paste. This was done to reduce sample heating from electron
irradiation of the MgO. The MgO pieces were thermally anchored to a
Cu-grid with silver paste.

Gold wires with 25 _m_m diameter were attached to the pads with silver
paste. The width of contact of the silver paste was approximately 70
_m_m, larger than the 30 _m_m width of the annealed gold stripe. Since
silver paste does not make good electrical contact to YBCO crystals
without a heat treatment, the effective contact width was that of the
gold stripe.

The assembled sample and holder, consisting of the YBCO crystal, the MgO
pieces, and the Cu-grid were mounted in the 3-mm sample space of the
side-entry, single-tilt, low-temperature specimen stage of the
High-Voltage Electron Microscope (HVEM) at Argonne National Laboratory.
A small amount of silver paste was used to assure good thermal contact
between the sample and the stage. This sample stage has the capability
of _in situ_ electrical-resistivity measurements.

A flow cryostat using helium gas as a coolant was employed to reach the
desired low temperatures. The sample’s resistance was measured upon slow
warming, which was manually controlled by regulating the flow of the
cold helium gas. To avoid migration and recovery of the point defects
induced by low-temperature electron irradiation, the measurements were
carried out while the sample remained in the range 75 K < T < 160 K. No
thermal lags were found; the resistance curve was the same when it was
measured during the slow warming that we used and remeasured with fast
cooling.

The data were collected by a computer-controlled dc-resistivity system,
with a current of 1 mA. The sensitivity of the dc apparatus was about 20
nV. The results were insensitive to the size of the current. Each data
point represents the average of 15 readings, with several current
reversals per point to cancel thermoelectric effects.

All of the data were taken with the sample in a magnetic field of about
0.1 T induced by the current in the objective lens of the electron
microscope.

## Irradiation conditions

In addition to having the capability of _in situ_ electrical-resistivity
measurements, the HVEM has the advantages of continuous energy
selection, accurate dosimetry, and easy control of the beam’s position
and shape.

The irradiations were performed in a vacuum of 4 x 10-7 Torr at  90 K.
The irradiation temperature was determined by measuring the resistance
of the sample during irradiation, which took 2 h. The irradiation
direction in the single crystal was  10 degrees from the _c_-axis
direction to avoid electron channeling. The dosimetry was performed by
measuring the total beam current entering a removable Faraday cup
located just above the sample beam. We used the microscope’s
low-magnification mode to spread the beam sufficiently to obtain uniform
irradiation of the area of interest. The beam was uniform along its
diameter to within 95

The energy of the electron beam, 350 keV, was chosen to selectively
displace oxygen atoms. The thickness of the sample (_t_ = 9 _m_m) was
chosen to allow penetration by the electron beam, with a reasonably
small average energy loss, about 10

## Results

In Fig. 1 we have plotted the _r_(_T_) curves measured prior to
irradiation, after low-temperature irradiation to doses of 0.98 x 1019
and 1.96 x 1019 e/cm2, and following subsequent annealing to room
temperature for 12 h. In Fig. 2 we display a magnification of the part
of Fig. 1 near T_(c), and in Fig. 3 we show a magnification of the part
of Fig. 1 at high temperatures (130 K < T < 160 K).

There are several interesting features that one should note. As the
irradiation dose increases T_(c) decreases while _r_(_T_) increases.
Following annealing to room temperature, both T_(c) and r recover, i.e.,
T_(c) increases and _r_(_T_) decreases. Table 1 shows T_(c) and _r_(145
K) values at different doses and following annealing to room
temperature. We have identified T_(c) as the temperature at which the
resistance falls below our resolution. We have chosen to show the
resistance at T = 145 K to avoid complications from thermodynamic
fluctuations, which are important near T_(c). Nevertheless, we could
have looked at any temperature above T_(c) since the thermodynamic
fluctuations near T_(c) seem not to be affected by the irradiation. The
width of the transition is also unaffected by the irradiation and the
subsequent annealing.

The resistivity above T_(c) exhibits a linear temperature dependence,
both after each irradiation dose and after warm up to room temperature.
Because the _r_(_T_) curves are parallel before and after irradiation,
we conclude that no detectable recovery of defects in the planes takes
place between about 90 and 160 K, the temperature range over which the
normal-state resistivity was measured. In Table 1 we display the linear
fit parameters of the resistivity to the equation _r_(_T_) = r0 + _bT_
for 130 K < T < 160 K. We always observe r0 to be negative, so the
resistivity in the absence of superconductivity could not remain linear
all the way down to zero temperature, but must turn over to obey some
higher power law.4

We chose to collect data for only two relatively low irradiation doses
because we were interested in producing low defect concentrations so
that we would be able to observe significant annealing effects upon
warming to room temperature, and to simplify the interpretation of the
data by avoiding interactions between neighboring defects.

## Discussion

Several _in situ_ TEM studies suggest that the incident electron energy
E_(i) needed to displace a chain oxygen is  130 keV.8,9 The threshold
energy absorbed to displace a chain oxygen atom is therefore E_(d)(0) =
20 eV. We have reported [10, 11] that the pinning capability of YBCO
crystals, similar to the ones used in this study, was enhanced only if
the energy of the incident electron beam was greater than 500 keV. We
suggested that this was the threshold incident electron energy for
producing displacements of copper atoms from the CuO₂ planes, so
E_(d)(Cu) = 25 eV. We chose E_(i) to be well above the energy needed to
displace oxygen atoms from the chains, to take into account the fact
that E_(d) of the oxygen atoms on the CuO₂ planes could be higher than
that of the oxygen atoms on the chains, but kept E_(i) below the energy
required to displace copper atoms from the CuO₂ planes. By using a
350-keV electron beam we insure that only oxygen atoms were displaced,
both in the chains and the planes.

To distinguish the contribution of planar-oxygen defects to the measured
resistivity from the contribution of chain oxygen defects, we carried
out the experiment in a crystal free of twins. The long edge of the
sample (the direction of the electrical current) was along the a axis.
This geometry assured that we measured the ρ_(aa) element of the
resistivity tensor, to which the chains should not contribute. The
increase of ρ_(aa)(T) upon irradiation with 350-keV electrons enables us
to set an upper limit on the incident electron energy needed to produce
displacements of oxygen atoms from the CuO₂ planes. Thus, E_(d) (O in
CuO₂ planes)  ≤ 64.5 eV.

While the measured resistivity can be attributed to the planar-oxygen
defects, we need to separate the contributions of the defects occurring
at the two oxygen sites to the observed shift in T_(c). To accomplish
this, we assume that the change in T_(c) (ΔT_(c)) induced by the
irradiation can be written as the sum of two components: ΔT_(c) = ΔT_(c)
(planes) +ΔT_(c) (chains). Each of the two components can be written as
the product of T_(c) change per defect per unit cell times the number of
defects per unit cell (n). We use the following equation to find n:

n^(i) = σ_(d)^(i)Φc^(i) ,

where the superscript index i labels the two sites; we chose i ≡ c for
chains, and i ≡ p for planes. σ_(d)^(i) is the cross section for
producing a Frenkel pair at the ith site, Φ is the dose of the
irradiation, and c^(i) is the number of i atoms per unit cell (c^(c) = 1
and c^(p) = 4). We use the McKinley-Feshbach approximation [12] to
calculate σ_(d). This approximation is sufficiently accurate in the case
of light atoms (Z < 29) such as oxygen. As we mentioned above, the
majority of studies, including one of ours, [8] suggest that E_(d) (O in
the chains)  ∼ 20 eV, but a recent study [13] suggests that E_(d) (O) =
10 eV. We feel this low threshold value may not be accurate, since
considerable transmission electron microscopy at 100 keV [E_(d)(O) = 15
eV] has shown no evidence for displacement damage in

Figure 1: ρ(T) curves measured prior to irradiation, after
low-temperature irradiation to doses of 0.98 × 10¹⁹ and 1.96 × 10¹⁹
e/cm², and following subsequent annealing to room temperature for 12 h.
The lines are the result of the linear fitting of the data to the
equation ρ(T) = ρ₀ + bT for 130 K  < T < 160 K.

this material.[8] Therefore we present the results from calculations in
which we used $E_{d}({\rm O})\!=\!20\ {\rm eV}$. In using this value we
assume the threshold energy for displacement of oxygen from the planes
to be the same as from the chains. We also assume that the displacement
of the apical oxygen does not play a significant role in either the
planar resistivity or T_(c).

Arguments supporting the latter assumption will be provided when we
discuss the fractional recovery of ρ and T_(c) following a warmup to
room temperature. We therefore calculate σ_(d)^(^(′)) using
$E_{d}\!=\!20\ {\rm eV}$ and find that σ_(d)^(^(′)) (20
eV)$\!=\!20.5\ {\rm b}$. Using Eq. (1) with this value for σ_(d)^(^(′))
and using $\Phi\!=\!1\!\times\!10^{19}\ {\rm e/cm^{2}}$, we find values
for n^(ρ) (the number of planar-oxygen defects per unit cell) and n^(c)
(the number of chain-oxygen defects per unit cell):
$n^{\rho}({\rm 20\ eV})\!=\!8.19\!\times\!10^{-4}$ and
$n^{c}({\rm 20\ eV})\!=\!2.05\!\times\!10^{-4}$.

Previous irradiation studies using the same electron energy have
indicated only a small (∼ 5%) recovery in T_(c) upon annealing to 160
K.[13] Our data indicate that this recovery in the normal-state
resistivity must be even smaller. We were careful to minimize the
migration and hence the recovery of defects (at least in the CuO₂
planes) between irradiation steps and during irradiation by measuring
ρ(T) only up to a maximum $T\!=\!160\ {\rm K}$ and keeping
$T_{\rm irrad}\!\sim\!90\ {\rm K}$, respectively. The concentrations of
defects we have calculated should therefore be fairly accurate. Table 1
shows that $\Delta T_{c}\!=\!-1.68\!\pm\!0.17\ {\rm K}$ per
$1\!\times\!10^{19}\ {\rm e/cm^{2}}$. The contribution of the
chain-oxygen defects, ΔT_(c) (chains), has previously been estimated by
using the results of oxygen gettering and desorption experiments.[14,
15, 16, 17] Those studies report a rate of decrease of T_(c) between 5
and about 36 K per chain-oxygen defect per unit cell. Using the maximum
value of 36 K per chain defect per unit cell, we find that ΔT_(c)
(chains; 20 eV)$\!=\!-0.007\ {\rm K}$ for an electron dose of
$1\!\times\!10^{19}\ {\rm e/cm^{2}}$. Since this value has much smaller
magnitude than does the measured ΔT_(c), we can attribute the total
suppression of T_(c) to displacements of planar-oxygen atoms. Thus, we
have experimentally confirmed the idea suggested by Weaver _et al.[18]_
that displacements of atoms from the CuO₂ planes dominate the
suppression of T_(c). (Using a 10-eV threshold energy increases the
displacement cross section and the calculated defect concentration for
oxygen by about a factor of 3, but it does not change this conclusion.)

Our conclusion that the planar-oxygen displacements are almost entirely
responsible for degrading T_(c) upon irradiation is also confirmed by
our following results. By analyzing our annealing data we found that the
recovery fraction of T_(c) and ρ(T) are almost the same:
$[T_{c}({\rm ann})\!-\!T_{c}({\rm irr})]/[T_{c}({\rm unirr})\!-\!T_{c}({\rm irr })]\!=\!0.333$
and
$[\rho({\rm ann})\!-\!\rho({\rm irr})]/[\rho({\rm unirr})\!-\!\rho({\rm irr})] \!=\!0.373$.
(Keep in mind that ρ_(aa) probes only the CuO₂ planes.) This result
indicates that the T_(c) suppressions caused by displace

Figure 2: Magnification of the part of Fig. 1 near T_(c).

ments of apical oxygens and chain oxygens are not important. In
addition, the linear reduction of T_(c) with dose would not have been
observed if the chains were the dominant contribution to T_(c)
suppression, since thermal data [14] would require T_(c) to change in a
nonlinear fashion.

There are several mechanisms leading to T_(c) suppression. For our
experimental results, we can exclude the mechanisms involving the
reduction of charge carriers and the introduction of magnetic centers.
Legris _et al._[13] have reported that electron irradiation does not
appreciably modify the number of charge carriers. (This was concluded
from Hall-effect measurements of YBCO single crystals before and after
irradiation with 420-keV electrons to doses higher than the ones used in
our work.) Welp _et al._[19] found that the defects induced in YBCO
crystals by irradiation with 1-MeV electrons to high dose are
nonmagnetic. They measured the normal-state susceptibility before and
after irradiation, and found no evidence of a Curie-Weiss tail. This
result is in contrast with the findings of Hofmann _et al._, [20] who
reported that the electron irradiation of YBCO pellets resulted in the
creation of magnetic centers. One should, however, keep in mind that the
irradiation damage at the grain boundaries could be responsible for that
observation.

By examining Table I we find that irradiation induces an increase in
ρ(T) at a linear rate of approximately 5.51±0.55 μΩ cm per 1 x 10¹⁹
e/cm². Therefore dT_(c)/dρ is  ∼ −0.30±0.04 K/μΩ cm.

Recently, Radtke _et al._[4] suggested that systematic experiments, such
as the one reported here, in which the change of T_(c) is related to the
change in ρ, could determine the symmetry of the order parameter in the
cuprates. Their theory addresses only the case of s-wave scattering by
impurities. It predicts that the initial slope dT_(c)/dρ for a d-wave
superconductor should be −0.74 − − 1.2 K/μΩ cm (for the best estimates
of the plasma frequency currently available for YBCO:
$1.1\leq\omega_{\rm pl}\leq 1.4$ eV), whereas an s-wave isotropic
superconductor should show no suppression of T_(c). Our experimental
value of −0.3 K/μΩ cm therefore indicates that the order parameter of
the cuprates is certainly not an isotropic s wave. Next we examine
whether we can distinguish between a d-wave and an _anisotropic_s-wave
or

Figure 3: Magnification of the part of Fig. 1 at high temperatures.

der parameter, based on our experimental results.

According to the theory of Millis, Sachdev, and Varma,[21] anisotropic
impurity scattering is characterized by a dimensionless parameter Q.
This parameter may take any value between −1 and 1, and it enters into
the equations determining the suppression of T_(c), but not the
equations that determine the residual resistivity. Radtke _et al._[4]
considered the case Q = 0, which assumes an isotropic impurity
scattering. The abscissa of their predicted T_(c) vs ρ₀ plot is modified
by the anisotropic scattering, since ρ₀ is replaced by ρ₀/(1 − Q). Thus,
the initial change in T_(c) with residual resistivity for a d-wave
superconductor could take any value between 0 and −2.4 K/μΩ cm. (Note:
as Q → 1, the response of a d-wave superconductor to impurities is
similar to that of an isotropic s-wave superconductor.) As Fig. 4 shows,
our data fall about half as fast as their prediction, so it would be
roughly consistent with a d-wave superconductor with anisotropically
scattering impurities and Q = 0.5. Hence, if the sample is a d-wave
superconductor, our results indicate that the impurity scattering has a
strong d-wave component.

Alternatively, an _anisotropic_s-wave superconductor can have a very
similar T_(c) suppression. As one increases the s-wave anisotropy of the
order parameter, the T_(c) vs ρ₀ curve changes from the isotropic s-wave
case to something that looks like the d-wave case.[22] Thus, we conclude
that our data clearly show that the cuprates are strongly anisotropic
superconductors, but we cannot determine whether the symmetry of the
pairing state is s or d wave. On the other hand, our data should provide
a critical test for any theory identifying the symmetry of the pairing
state and the partial-waves phase shifts for the impurity scattering.

## Conclusions

We have carried out low-temperature _in situ_ resistivity measurements
on a high-quality detwinned single crystal of YBCO in a high-voltage
electron microscope. We have examined how T_(c) and ρ(T) change as a
function of electron irradiation dose at an electron energy low enough
to produce only oxygen displacements and at temperatures low enough to
avoid defect recovery. We find that oxygen displacements from the CuO₂
planes rather than the chains are the dominant contribution to the
irradiation-induced suppression of T_(c).

In addition, we find that dT_(c)/dρ =  − 0.30 ± 0.04 K/μΩ cm which
indicates that the cuprates are strongly anisotropic superconductors,
but not whether the pairing symmetry is s or d wave. Isotropic s-wave
pairing can be, however, ruled out. Our data provide a test for further
development of the present theories addressing the symmetry of the
pairing state.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful for stimulating discussions with R. J. Radtke and Kathy
Levin. This work was supported in part by the National Science
Foundation Grant No. DMR 91-20000 through the Science and Technology
Center for Superconductivity (J.G., D.M.G.), and in part by the U.S.
Department of Energy BES-Materials Sciences, under Contract No.
W-31-109-ENG-38 (M.A.K., S.O.).

## References

* [1] J. Annett, N. Goldenfeld, and S. R. Renn, in _Physical Properties
of High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1990), Vol. II, and references therein. * [2] C.
Kallin and A. J. Berlinsky (unpublished). * [3] B. G. Levi, Phys. Today,
**46**(5), 17 (1993). * [4] R. J. Radtke, K. Levin, H.-B. Schuttler, and
M. R. Norman, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 653 (1993). * [5] J. P. Rice, B. G.
Pazol, D. M. Ginsberg, T. J. Moran, and M. B. Weissman, J. Low Temp.
Phys. **72**, 345 (1988). * [6] J. Giapintzakis, D. M. Ginsberg, and
P.-D. Han, J. Low Temp. Phys. **77**, 155 (1989). * [7] T. A. Friedmann,
M. W. Rabin, J. Giapintzakis, J. P. Rice, and D. M. Ginsberg, Phys. Rev.
B **42**, 6217 (1990). * [8] M. A. Kirk, M. C. Baker, J. Z. Liu, D. J.
Lam, and H. W. Weber, in _High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by
M. B. Brodsky, R. C. Dynes, K. Kitazawa, and H. L. Tuller, MRS Symposia
Proceedings No. 99 (Materials Research Society, Pittsburgh, 1988), p.
209. * [9] S. N. Basu, T. E. Mitchell, and N. Nastasi, J. Appl. Phys.
**69**, 3167 (1991). * [10] J. Giapintzakis, W. C. Lee, J. P. Rice, D.
M. Ginsberg, I. M.

Figure 4: The ratio t of the sample’s transition temperature T_(c) to
that of the unirradiated sample vs r, the difference between the
sample’s resistivity at T = 145 K and that of the unirradiated sample.
The solid rectangular points show the experimental data. The
uncertainties (plus to minus one standard deviation) of the experimental
data are equal to the widths of the points and one half of the heights
of the points. The s- and d-wave predictions are from Ref. 4. The
indicated ranges of theoretical values for the d-wave case stem from an
uncertainty of the plasma frequency. (See text.)

Robertson, R. Wheeler, M. A. Kirk, and M.-O. Ruault, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 10 677 (1992). * [11] J. Giapintzakis, M. A. Kirk, W. C. Lee, J.
P. Rice, D. M. Ginsberg, I. M. Robertson, and R. L. Wheeler, in _Layered
Superconductors: Fabrication, Properties, and Applications_, edited by
D. T. Shaw, C. C. Tsuei, T. R. Schneider, and Y. Shiohara, MRS Symposia
Proceedings No. 275 (Materials Research Society, Pittsburgh, 1992), p.
741. * [12] W. A. McKinley, Jr. and H. Feshbach, Phys. Rev. **74**, 1759
(1948). * [13] A. Legris, F. Rullier-Albenque, E. Radeva, and P. Lejay,
J. Phys. (France) I **3**, 1605 (1993). * [14] J. R. Cava, B. Batlogg,
C. H. Chen, E. A. Rietman, S. M. Zahurak, and D. Werder, Phys. Rev. B
**36**, 5719 (1987). * [15] J. Lesueur, P. Nedellec, H. Bernas, J. P.
Burger, and L. Dumoulin, Physica C **167**, 1 (1990). * [16] R. Beyers,
B. T. Ahn, G. Gorma, V. Y. Lee, S. S. P. Parkin, M. L. Ramirez, K. P.
Roche, J. E. Vazquez, T. M. Gur, and R. A. Huggins, Nature (London)
**340**, 619 (1989). * [17] B. W. Veal, A. P. Paulikas, Hoyodo You, Hao
Shi, Y. Fang, and J. W. Downey, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6305 (1990). * [18]
B. D. Weaver, E. J. Jackson, G. P. Summers, and E. A. Jackson, Phys.
Rev. B **46**, 1134 (1992). * [19] U. Welp _et al._ (private
communication). * [20] A. Hofmann, H. Kronmuller, N. Moser, R. Reisser,
P. Schulte, and F. Dworschak, Physica C **156**, 528 (1988). * [21] A.
J. Millis, S. Sachdev, and C. M. Varma, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 4975
(1988). * [22] R. Fehrenbacher and M. R. Norman, Phys. Rev. B **50**,
3495 (1994); R. J. Radtke (private communication).
