Magnetic ordering of Nd³⁺ ions in the high-temperature superconductor
NbBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Ga_(x)O_(7 − y) (0 < x <= 0.5 and 0.05 < y < 0.15)

A. M. Niraimathi and E. Gmelin

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

G. Rangarajan

Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology, Madras 600 036,
India

Received 20 May 1994; revised manuscript received 7 November 1994

###### Abstract

We report on the magnetic specific heats of
NdBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Ga_(x)O_(7 − y) measured in the temperature range from
0.45 to 100 K. The Ga substitution in the Cu chain sites descrases the
superconducting transition temperature drastically. Simultaneously,
there is a systematic increase of temperature of magnetic ordering of
the Nd³⁺ ions with Ga substitution. The nature of the magnetic ordering
of Nd³⁺ ion changes from two-dimensional (2D) anisotropic Ising behavior
for the oxygen rich compound with zero Ga content to 1D Ising-like for
low Ga concentration. With higher Ga concentration, at the advent of
nonsuperconductivity, long-range (3D) magnetic ordering is
reestablished. The increase of the magnetic interaction between the Nd³⁺
ions by the substitution of Ga is discussed with the variation of
carrier concentration, increase in the Nd-O bond length and with the
additional interaction due to Cu-ion ordering in the nonsuperconducting
compounds.

## 1 Introduction

Many efforts have been made to understand the coexistence of
superconductivity and magnetism in rare-earth 123 (_R_ 123) oxide
superconductors. It is well known that the R 3+ ion in R 123
superconductors has small effect on the superconducting properties
except in the case of Pr.[1, 2] Recently, it was found that there is a
systematic change of magnetic ordering of R ions like Nd, Sm, Er, and Dy
with the amount of the oxygen content in these compounds.[3, 4, 5] This
variation is found to be maximum in Nd123 superconductor. As the oxygen
depletion is in the Cu-chain sites, the oxygen deficiency cannot
influence directly the Nd³⁺ ion ordering and the variation of the
magnetic ordering is thought to be due to the change in the charge
carrier concentration and/or due to the localization of mobile holes.[6]

To understand the effect of the change in the carrier concentration on
the magnetic ordering of the Nd³⁺ ion, we selected the Ga-substituted
Nd123 system. This compound is chosen because Ga is nonmagnetic, so the
_T__(c) depression cannot be accounted for by the pair-breaking
mechanism. Moreover, it was reported recently [7, 8] that Ga is much
more effective in reducing _T__(c) in the Nd123 system compared to the
Y123 or Er123 compounds. Hence by studying the Ga-substituted Nd123
system we can study the variation of the magnetic ordering with respect
to the change in the charge carrier concentration as well as the change
in _T__(c) due to the replacement of Cu by Ga.

In this contribution we report on a systematic investigation of the
magnetic ordering of Nd³⁺ ions in Ga-substituted Nd123 compounds,
NdBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Ga_(x)O_(7 − y) (0 < x <= 0.5) by low-temperature
heat-capacity measurements in the temperature range from 100 K down to
0.45 K. We observe sharp, and in some cases broad, peaks in C_(P)(_T_)
at low temperatures. The temperature dependence of the magnetic
contribution to C_(P)(_T_), its magnetic energy E_(m), and the magnetic
entropy S_(m) are analyzed in terms of different models of magnetic
ordering. The paper is organized as follows: after a description of
sample preparation, characterization, and experimental techniques, we
compute the magnetic specific heat, determine coupling constants,
discuss the influence of Ga concentration and oxygen deficiency on the
magnetic ordering of Nd³⁺ ions and give a phenomenological explanation
of the anisotropy of the coupling constants, the variation of the
magnetic ordering temperature and the dimensionality with Ga
concentration.

## 2 Experimental details

### Sample preparation and characterization

Initially the samples used for the heat-capacity measurements were
provided by Mary _et al._[7] who have already described elsewhere their
method of sample preparation. Later large quantities of samples (about
25 g) of NdBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Ga_(x)O_(7 − y) were prepared for
neutron-scattering measurements. These samples were also used for
specific-heat measurements especially below 2 K. The starting materials
were high-purity Nd₂O₃ (99.99

Additionally, the unsubstituted NdBa2Cu3O6.2 was prepared by reducing
the sintered sample in flowing nitrogen for 65 h at 650 degC. For this
compound the oxygen content of y 0.8 was estimated by AES. The sample
was further characterized by XRD and by checking for the absence of
superconductivity by dc susceptibility measurements down to 2 K. The
diffractogram indicated a clear tetragonal symmetry (see Table 1). The
compound NdBa2Cu3O6.2 was used as a reference material for the
investigation of magnetic ordering effects below 2 K. In the case of the
superconducting compositions, T_(c) and the Meissner fraction were
determined from the temperature dependence of electrical resistivity
_r_(_T_) and dc magnetic susceptibility _kh_(_T_). Semiautomatic
measurements of _r_(_T_) were performed by the van der Pauw method as
described already.9 The susceptibility _r_(_T_) was measured using a
SQUID magnetometer (Quantum Design). As examples, _r_(_T_) and _kh_(_T_)
curves of some samples are plotted in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b). The inset in
Fig. 2(a) shows _d_r_/_dT_ vs T for the compound with x = 0.09. Figure
2(b) displays the field-cooled (FC) and zero-field-cooled (ZFC)
susceptibilities in a field of 100 G for the compound with x = 0. The
temperature variation of susceptibility data for all samples and a more
detailed discussion on the normal-state susceptibility, with reference
to crystalline electric-field effects, in these compounds will be
published

  ----------- ---------------------------
    x (Ga)            Composition
     0.01      NdBa1.95Cu2.91Ga0.02O6.9
     0.03       NdBa1.94Cu2.92Ga0.04.68
      0.3      NdBa1.79Cu2.71Ga0.22O6.87
      0.5      NdBa1.91Cu2.5Ga0.35O6.94
   0.y = 0.8      NdBa1.91Cu2.92O6.17
  ----------- ---------------------------

Table 2: Atomic emission spectroscopy (AES) analysis results for the
compound NdBa2Cu3-_x_Ga_x_O7-_ with different Ga concentration x.

Figure 1: X-ray powder diffractogram of NdBa2Cu3−_x_Ga2O7−_y_ for
different Ga concentrations x = 0, 0.01, 0.03, and 0.3 with 0.05 < y <
0.15.

separately.10 T_(c) (onset) was determined as the temperature at which a
reversal of sign occurs in the slope of χ(T). T_(c) (mid) was defined as
the temperature at which a peak in dρ/dT occurs. T_(c) (onset), T_(c)
(mid), and the Meissner fractions are listed in Table 1 for the
different Ga concentrations.

### Heat-capacity experiments

The specific-heat measurements in the temperature interval from 2 to 100
**K** were carried out using quasiadiabatic calorimeters equipped with
commercial Pt and Ge resistors as sample thermometers. Details of the
calorimeters have been described earlier.11-13 For the experiments below
2 **K** a ³He evaporation cryostat operating in the continuous mode was
employed. For the heat-capacity measurements, either a single sample
holder, with a commercial Ge resistance thermometer, or a multiple
sample holder arrangement having calibrated Speer and RuO2 resistance
thermometers were used. To calculate the specific heat, the nearly
adiabatic (isoperibol) drift lines in the heat-capacity curves were
fitted to an exponential function as described elsewhere.14

## III Results

The measured specific heats C_(P)(T) are shown in Fig. 3. For clarity we
have plotted only the data for three samples, the unsubstituted
oxygen-rich compound (_x_ = 0), a Ga-substituted sample (_x_ = 0.5), and
the oxygen-deficient compound NdBa2Cu3O6.2. The heat-capacity data of
all other Ga-substituted compounds are located between those of the
unsubstituted compounds. Sharp peaks occur below 2 K and indicate
magnetic ordering of Nd3+ ions. The lattice and electronic contributions
to the heat capacity have to be subtracted from the total measured heat
capacity in order to determine the magnetic specific-heat contribution.
An approximate determination of the lattice and the linear contributions
to the specific heat was carried out by plotting C_(P)/T vs T², where
C_(P) is the measured specific heat. One such plot is shown as the inset
for Fig. 3. The straight-line region between 7 and 15 K is least-squares
fitted. From the slope and the intercept, the coefficient of the lattice
specific-heat term β and the coefficient of a linear specific-heat term
γ were determined. The limiting value of the Debye temperature θ_(D)(0)
was calculated from θ_(D)(0) = (1944/_b_)1/3 where r is the number of
atoms present in the compounds. The results are tabulated in Table 3.

### Schottky anomaly due to crystalline electric-field effects

After subtraction of the lattice and linear terms from the total
specific-heat broad anomalies centered around 30-45 K are observed.
Theoretical calculation on crystalline electric-field (CEF) effects in
Ga-substituted Nd123 compounds by the present authors [10] has been
confirmed experimentally by inelastic neutron scattering performed on
one of the samples (_x_ = 0.5, y = 0.8).[15] These theoretical and
experimental results locate the first excited level, due to
crystal-field split energy in NdBa2Cu2.5Ga0.5O6.2, at an energy of D =
108 +- 7 K above the ground level. This value is in good agreement with
the value obtained for the unsubstituted sample NdBa2Cu3O7-6.[16] The
configuration of the Nd3+ ion is obviously not appreciably changed by Ga
substitution. The Nd3+ ion is a Kramer ion and the ground state as well
as the excited state are doubly degenerate. Since the other excited
levels occur at much higher temperatures, the effects of CEF can be well
described by two levels only. Such a two-level system should be
reflected in the specific-heat curve by a Schottky anomaly with a
maximum contribution of 3.64 J/mol K expected at a temperature of T =
0.417 x 108 K.[17] However, the existence of such a contribution could
not be verified for the following conditions. According to Fig. 3, the
expected additional specific heat represents only about 7

In conclusion, from our specific-heat data we are not able to confirm
the existence of a Schottky anomaly near

Figure 3: Specific heat C_(P) as a function of temperature for the
Ga-substituted compositions ⟨⟩⟨⟩⟨⟩ for x = 0 with y = 0.05, ⟨⟩⟨⟩⟨⟩ for x
= 0 with y = 0.8, and ⟨⟩⟨⟩⟨⟩ for x = 0.5 with y = 0.06. The inset shows
a plot C_(P)/T vs T², for x = 0.5 with _y

40 K. On the other hand, we cannot rule out the existence of the same
since the temperature dependence of the lattice specific heat can easily
mask the expected specific-heat anomaly.

### Magnetic specific-heat anomalies

The magnetic specific heats at low temperatures,
C_(m) = C_(p) − γT − βT³, for the studied Ga-substituted and nearly
oxygen stoichiometric Nd123 compounds are shown in Fig. 4 together with
the magnetic specific heat of the unsubstituted superconducting compound
NdBa2Cu3O6.9 as reported in literature.18 The magnetic specific heat of
the oxygen-deficient sample, NdBa2Cu3O6.2 is also plotted as a function
of temperature in Fig. 4 in order to compare directly the influence of
Ga substitution and/or oxygen deficiency.

The measured magnetic specific heats C_(m), attributed to Nd3+-ion
ordering are centered around 1.5 K. The maximum value of the magnetic
specific-heat anomalies C_(max) vary between 1.5 J/mol K and nearly 10
J/mol K. These maxima are 2 orders of magnitude larger than the
subtracted lattice and linear contributions. Thus the magnetic specific
heat is dominant and can be regarded as almost _independent_ of the
procedure chosen to correct for lattice and linear terms. The sample
holder also contributes always less than  ≈ 7% to the total measured
heat capacity below 4 K. The relative inaccuracies of the deduced
magnetic specific heats are estimated to be less than 2

The temperature at which $C_{\rm max}$ occurs ($T_{\rm max}$), in the
compounds reported here, NdBa2Cu3-_x_Ga_(x)O7-_y_ vary between 0.86 and
1.51 K. The magnetic anomalies display remarkably different shapes (Fig.
4). A very small Ga concentration of x = 0.01 nearly doubles the
magnetic transition temperature from 0.53 K (for the unsubstituted
oxygen-rich sample) to 0.93 K. The sharp peak, however, disappears and
we observe a rather tiny and smeared out magnetic specific heat. For the
compound with x = 0.03, the Neel temperature occurs at 0.86 K and a peak
in the magnetic specific heat which is about three times as large is
seen. Both samples are superconducting with transition temperatures of
81.2 and 70.5 K, respectively. The next sample with x = 0.3 is
nonsuperconducting and a large bell-shaped anomaly is associated with
the magnetic transition around 1.24 K. For the compound with the maximum
Ga concentration reported here, x = 0.5, a very sharp anomaly is
observed at 1.33 K. A similar sharp ordering is detected at 1.51 K for
the oxygen-deficient and non-superconducting compound (_x_ = 0, y = 0.8)
in approximate agreement with an earlier reported value of 1.63 K. [3,
5]

From the magnetic specific-heat data, the magnetic entropy S_(m)(T) as
well as the magnetic internal energy E_(m)(T) were calculated using the
equations

$$S_{m}(T) = \int_{0}^{T}\frac{C_{m}}{T^{\prime}}dT^{\prime}\ ,$$

and

E_(m)(T) = ∫₀^(T)C_(m)dT^(′) .

The temperature dependence of the magnetic entropies for the
investigated compounds is shown in Fig. 5. Nearly constant
high-temperature values are observed above 5 K. The entropy and magnetic
internal energy values at $T_{\rm max}$ are listed in Table 4.

### Magnetic entropy

The data shown in Fig. 5 indicate a systematic increase of the magnetic
entropy above 5 K with increasing concentration of Ga. The total
expected entropy associated with the ordering of Nd3+ ions is R ln2 =
5.76 J/mol K, since it is a Kramer ion with a low-lying ground doublet
and the first excited level far away from the ground state at around 100
K. [16] In the calculation of entropy the correction due to the C_(m) in
the temperature range 0-0.45 K is very small (about 0.02

For the low Ga replacement x = 0.01, x = 0.03 the magnetic entropies at
the Neel temperatures of 0.93 and 0.86 K are only 9 and 27

The systematic change of entropy of the Ga-substituted Nd123 compounds
reported here is similar to that observed in the case of Nd123 compounds
with different oxygen concentration. [5] The characteristic parameters
are derived from the entropy at various temperatures and are compared
with the calculated values for the known magnetic models in Table 4
along with the corresponding values for magnetic specific heat and
internal energy. The information extracted from these characteristic
parameters are utilized for further analysis.

Table 5: $T_{\rm max}$ and coupling constants have been determined for
different Ga concentration. Coupling constant of the unsubstituted
compound, x = 0, is included for comparison as reported by Lee (Ref. 5).
$T_{\rm max}$ (expt.) is the experimental data whereas $T_{\rm max}$
(fit) is the $T_{\rm max}$ derived from the fit.

Figure 7: Fit of magnetic specific heat C_(m) to Ising models. (a)
C_(m)(T) for NdBa2Cu2,γGa0,γ_(0 − γ) with the fit corresponding to exact
solution of the 2D anisotropic Ising model: • • •, experimental data;
——, 2D anisotropic Ising model fit with T_(N) = 0.685 K and J₁ = 1.55 K
and J₂ = 0.0074 K. (b) C_(m)(T) for NdBa2Cu2,γGa0,γO7–_y_ with the
theoretical fit of the 1D Ising model. $\squaresquare$, experimental
data; —— fit corresponding to the 1D Ising model with J = 1 K.

tion at the Cu sites. The magnetic ordering of Nd³⁺ ions in these
compounds cannot be dipolar. As the number of charge carriers in these
compounds is 2 orders of magnitude less than that in metals, the
probable mechanism would be superexchange rather than indirect exchange
of the RKKY type. Ordering of Nd³⁺ ions in NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6.9) is reported
to be of 2D Ising type with large anisotropy, i.e., J₁/J₂ > 50.[5] With
the substitution of Cu by Ga, the magnetic ordering becomes 1D
Ising-like. The neutron-diffraction data on the NdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) with
different oxygen content y shows a remarkable increase in the Nd-O bond
distances along the a direction and a decrease along the b direction,
which is an effect of the hole depletion.[25] A similar change in the
Nd-O distances along different directions in the Ga-substituted
compounds may result in an increase in the anisotropy of magnetic
interaction driving the system to 1D Ising-like. According to the
entropy results, the spins involved in such an interaction, however, are
only 9 and 27

## V Conclusion

Summarizing, the effects of charge carrier density on the magnetic
ordering of Nd³⁺ ion is stronger than for the other high-temperature
oxide superconductors, for example, Dy or Er. Our experimental results
point out that the decrease in the carrier concentration via depletion
of the oxygen ions and the Ga concentration have very similar effects on
the magnetic properties of the Nd³⁺ ions whereby the Ga is more
effective in decreasing T_(c) and increasing $T_{\rm max}$. A combined
influence is registered of (i) reduction of the hole concentration in
the ab planes and, as a consequence, an increase in superexchange
interaction in the a axis and decrease of the same in the b axis leading
to a strong anisotropy in the Nd-Nd interaction, (ii) gradually
increasing magnetic ordering of the Cu spins, when the unsubstituted
compound NdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) is substituted with Ga and/or O vacancies
facilitating the long-range ordering. The interesting range of very low
Ga substituting, x < 0.1 is further investigated. It constitutes a model
system to study the transition from 2D to 1D Ising systems and the
influence of magnetic field on the ordering phenomena.

## Acknowledgments

The authors thank Dr. P. Allenspach for fruitful discussions and
cooperation, Dr. R. K. Kremer and Dr. W. Schnelle for numerous
clarifying discussions and acknowledge technical help by E. Schmitt and
K. Ripka. One of the authors (A.M.N.) is grateful to the German Academic
Exchange Service (DAAD), Germany and the Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research (CSIR), India for financial support. Another author
(G.R.) thanks the Federal Ministry for Research and Technology (BMFT) of
Germany through the Internationales Buro Julich and the National
Superconductivity Science and Technology Board (NSTB), India for
financial support.

Figure 8: Variation of $T_{\rm max}$ and the variation of
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) as a function of Ga
concentration in NdBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Ga_(x)O_(7 − y) and of the oxygen
reduction in unsubstituted compounds: ◼◼, for Ga-substituted compounds;
◼◼, for oxygen-depleted compounds.

* [11]**On leave from Department of Physics, Indian Institute of
Technology, Madras, India.** * [12]**A. V. Narlikar, C. V. Narashima
Rao, and S. K. Agarwal, in _Studies on High Temperature
Superconductors,_ edited by Anant Narlikar (Nova Science, New York,
1989). * [13]**J. T. Margret, Y. Dallilouch, J. M. Ferreira, and M. B.
Maple, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors,_
edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1989). * [14]**B.
W. Lee _et al._, Phys. Rev. B 37, 2368 (1988). * [15]**J. M. Ferreira
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B 37, 1580 (1988). * [16]**B. W. Lee, Ph.D. thesis,
University of California, San Diego, California, 1992.** * [17]**K.
Takita _et al._, Physica C 191, 509 (1992). * [18]**T. A. Mary and U. V.
Varadaraju, Mater. Res. Bull. 27, 447 (1992).** * [19]**Y. Xu and W.
Guan, Physica C 212, 119 (1993).** * [20]**A. M. Niraimathi _et al._,
Indian J. Pure Appl. Phys. 29, 307 (1991).** * [21]**A. M. Niraimathi,
G. Rangarajan, and E. Gmelin (unpublished).** * [22]**E. Gmelin,
Thermochem. Acta 29, 1 (1979).** * [23]**E. Gmelin and K. Ripka,
Cryogenics 21, 117 (1981).** * [24]**E. Gmelin and P. Rodhammer, J.
Phys. E 14, 223 (1981).** * [25]**S. B. Ota and E. Gmelin, Meas. Sci.
Technol. 3, 1047 (1992).** * [26]**A. M. Niraimathi and P. Allenspach
(unpublished).** * [27]**P. Allenspach _et al._, Physica B 156&157, 864
(1989).** * [28]**E. S. R. Gopal, _Specific Heat at Low Temperatures
(Plenum, London, 1966)._ * [29]**B. Allenspach _et al._, J. Appl. Phys.
73, 6317 (1993).** * [30]**J. Van Kranendonk and J. H. Van Vleck, Rev.
Mod. Phys. 30, 1 (1958).** * [31]**G. S. Rushbrooke and P. J. Wood, Mol.
Phys. 6, 409 (1963).** * [32]**D. G. Onn, H. Meyer, and J. P. Remeika,
Phys. Rev. 156, 663 (1967).** * [33]**L. Onsager, Phys. Rev. 65, 117
(1944).** * [34]**_Magnetochemistry, edited by R. M. Carlin
(Springer-Verlag, New York, 1983).** * [35]**P. Allenspach, M. B. Maple,
and A. Furrer, J. Alloys Compounds 207/208, 213 (1994).** * [36]**P.
Allenspach, Ph.D. thesis, ETH, Zurich, Switzerland, 1991.** * [37]**J.
A. Hodges _et al._, Physica C 184, 283 (1991).** * [38]**J. M. Tranquada
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B 38, 2477 (1988).** * [39]**L. J. deJongh and A.
R. Miedema, Adv. Phys. 23, 1 (1974).**
