# Magnetic and calorimetric studies of anomalous Pr antiferromagnetic
ordering

in orthorhombic Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8

J. H. Shieh and H. C. Ku

Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
300, Republic of China

J. C. Ho

Department of Physics, Wichita State University, Wichita, Kanasas 67260

###### Abstract

Magnetic measurements on vacuum-annealed orthorhombic Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8+,
(_y_ 0) reveal an anomalous Pr antiferromagnetic ordering at _T__N(Pr) 6
K with transition onset up to 11 K. This Pr-2213 compound shares common
structural features with the tetragonal Pr-123 compound PrBa2Cu3O8 which
also undergoes a Pr ordering at 10 K. However, oxygenated
pseudotetragonal Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8+, (_y_ 1) exhibits only low transition
onset around 3 K, while orthorhombic PrBa2Cu3O7 has a higher _T_N(Pr)
value of 17 K. Complementary studies by adiabatic calorimetry on
Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8 yield a specific-heat anomaly with a peak near the
magnetically derived _T_N(Pr), with onset around 11 K. A large
heavy-fermion-like linear term in the specific heat prevails as often
observed in other Pr-containing high-_T_c systems. The magnetic entropy
D_S_m below 11 K onset is relatively small, only 13

## I Introduction

The anomalously high Pr antiferromagnetic ordering temperature of 17 K
for PrBa2Cu3O7, which happens to be the only nonsuperconducting member
of the _R_Ba2Cu3O7 (_R_ -123) system (_R_ = Y or most rare earths), has
been the focus of extensive research ever since the discovery of
high-_T_c superconductors.1-3 With further oxygen deficiency, _T_N(Pr)
decreases to 10 K in PrBa2Cu3O6.2-4 In comparison, other magnetic
rare-earth compounds have a maximum _T_N(_R_) of 2.2 K in GdBa2Cu3O7.5,6
Meanwhile, Pr substitution leads to _T_c suppression from above 90 K in
(_R_1-_x_Pr)Ba2Cu3O7. For x > 0.5, superconductivity is totally
quenched, and Pr ordering begins to set in.2 Similar anomalous Pr
magnetic behavior has been observed in two-CuO2 layer TlBa2PrCu2O7
(Tl-1212) compound and related Pr-containing Tl(Ba,Sr)2PrCu2O7 and
(Pb,Cu)Sr2PrCu2O7 systems,7-10 with the _T_N(Pr) value ranges from 8 to
4 K. However, no Pr anomaly was observed for another two-CuO2 layer
compound Bi2Sr2PrCu2O8 (Bi-2212) down to 1.6 K.11 Various types of
experiments have been performed to substantiate these anomalous Pr
phenomena in the Pr-123 and Pr-1212 systems and to clarify the mechanism
of magnetic order and/or superconductivity suppression, but a clear
picture is still elusive. Obviously, additional information from more
diverse systems would be extremely helpful toward delineating the
various factors which may play critical roles in this regard. This work
was, therefore, carried out on the two-CuO2 layer Pr system
Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8+, (_y_ 0 and 1). These Pr compounds belong to the
Pb2Sr2(_R_,Ca)Cu3O8+, (Pb-2213) family (_R_ = Y or rare earths; 0 <= y
<= 1.5), where stable superconductivity in the range 70 K was
reported.12,13 For the Ca-free Pb2Sr2_R_Cu3O8+, system, no bulk
superconductivity was observed, although filamentary superconductivity
or superconductinglike resistivity drop around 70 K was reported for
most of the vacuum-annealed samples.12,14

## II Experiments

The Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8+, sample was prepared by two-stage solid-state
reaction techniques. High-purity SrCO3, Pr2O3, and CuO powders with the
ratio Sr:Pr:Cu = 2:1:3 were well mixed, grounded and calcined at 930degC
in air with at least one intermediate grinding. The precursor Sr2PrCu3Ox
powders were then mixed with the appropriate amounts of PbO, heated at
750degC in air for 12 h with intermediate grindings. For
vacuum-annealed, oxygen-reduced samples (_y_ 0), the reacted powders
were pressed into pellets and annealed at 870degC in vacuum (about 10-2
torr) for 24 h followed by furnace cooling. For oxygen-annealed samples
(_y_ 1), the vacuum-reacted pellets were again put at 400degC in flowing
oxygen for 48 h followed by furnace cooling. Other oxygen-reduced
rare-earth compounds Pb2Sr2_R_Cu3O8 (_R_ = Y, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd, Dy, and
Ho) were prepared using the same method.

Structure analysis was made by a Rigaku Rotaflex rotating anode powder
x-ray diffractometer using Cu _K_a radiation with a scanning rate of
0.5deg in 2_th_ per minute. A Lazy Pulveriz-PC program (version 1) was
employed for phase identifications and lattice parameter calculations.
Ac electrical resistivity measurements (16 Hz) were carried out by the
standard four-probe method with a stable rms current of 3 _m_A down to
30 K in a closed-cycle refrigerator. dc magnetic susceptibility
measurements were made with a Quantum Design MPMS superconducting
quantum interference device magnetometer from 2 to 350 K with applied
magnetic fields up to 1 T. Low-field ac magnetic susceptibility
measurements were made with a Lake Shore 7221 susceptometer and/or
magnetometer from 4.2 to 300 K with low rms magnetic fields from 0.005
up to 1 G in the frequency range of 100-1000 Hz. Specific-heat data were
obtained by an adiabatic calorimeter for the temperature range of 2 to
14 K, with Joule heating and germanium thermometry.

## III Results and Discussion

The powder x-ray-diffraction patterns of the vacuum-annealed
Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8+_y_ (_y_ 0) Pr-2213 sample is shown in Fig. 1. The
orthorhombic splitting of the (20_I_/0_2_I_) (_l_ = 0 and 1) diffraction
lines for this oxygen-reduced compound are more clearly shown in Fig. 2,
with lattice parameters a = 5.454(2) A, b = 5.486(2) A, c = 15.823(6) A,
and unit-cell volume V = 473.4(2) A3. This orthorhombic structure with
space group _Cmmm_ (Refs. [12] and [15]) is very similar to that of the
tetragonal Pr-123 PrBa2Cu3O6 (_a_ = 3.898 A, c = 11.84 A, and space
group _P4/mmm_).4 The schematic comparison between these two structures
are shown in Fig. 3, where a pseudotetragonal lattice parameter of a =
(_a_ = a 2 + b 2)0.5/2 = 3.868 A is used for Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8. The main
difference from PrBa2Cu3O6 is the replacement of the lone Cu plane by
PbO-Cu-PbO planes (the Pb2CuO2 block module). The origin of the
orthorhombic distortion is due to the nonequivalent 16(_r_) O(2)
positions of oxygen atoms in the PbO layers. Because of the lone pairs
of electrons of the Pb2+ cations, two basal O(2) oxygen atoms of the
pyramid surrounding Pb2+ move closer to the cation while the other two
move further away.15 The oxygen parameter y 0 is confirmed by the
powder-neutron-diffraction Rietveld analysis.16

Upon annealing the oxygen-reduced sample in flowing oxygen at 400degC
for 2 days, the oxidized sample of Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8+_y_ (_y_ 1) remains
slightly orthorhombic with lattice parameters a = 5.507(2) A, b =
5.510(2) A, c = 15.881(6) A and a larger unit-cell volume V of 481.9(2)
A3. The splitting between the (20_I_/0_2_I_) diffraction lines for this
pseudotetragonal sample shown in Fig. 4 is barely observable, indicates
the closeness of this sample to the orthorhombic-tetragonal transition
boundary where the isostructural Pb2Sr2YCu3O8+_y_ system show such a
transition around y 1.17,18 The extra oxygen atoms are intercalated into
the Cu layer sandwiched between two PbO layers.17,18

Both samples (_y_ 0 and 1) show semiconducting behavior down to 30 K
from ac electrical resistivity measurements. However, the
vacuum-annealed samples (_y_ 0) give a low-room-temperature resistivity
_r_(RT) of 530 mO cm and some samples show filamentary diamagnetic
signals (<1

The variation of orthorhombic unit-cell volume for the oxygen-reduced
Pb2Sr2_R_Cu3O8 samples (_R_ = Pr, Nd,

Figure 3: A schematic comparison between the structures of tetragonal
PrBa2Cu3O6 (_P4/mmm_) and orthorhombic Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8 (_Cmmm_).

Figure 2: The orthorhombic splitting of (20_I_/0_2_I_) (_l_ = 0 and 1)
diffraction lines for the vacuum-annealed Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8 sample

Sm, Eu, Gd, Dy, Ho, and Y) with respect to the R³⁺ ionic radius as
plotted in Fig. 5 followed a common linear line indicates the Pr³⁺
nature in Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O₈. The deviation of the Pr⁴⁺ point is as shown for
comparison.

The temperature dependence of molar magnetic susceptibility χ_(m) of the
vacuum-annealed Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O₈ sample in a 1-T applied magnetic field is
shown in Fig. 6. Small fluctuation observed above room temperature
indicates a possible Cu²⁺ magnetic ordering around or above 350 K. High
applied field of 1 T is used in order to suppress the possible magnetic
coupling between the Cu²⁺ moments and the Pr³⁺ moments. A simple
Curie-Weiss fit χ_(m) = C/(T + θ_(p)) is obtained below 100 K from the
low-temperature inverse magnetic susceptibility χ_(m)⁻¹(T) (Fig. 7),
which yields a negative paramagnetic intercept θ_(p) = −10.1 K and an
effective magnetic moment of 2.78μ_(B) per Pr if the small Cu²⁺ moment
can be neglected. The effective moment observed seems to be closer to
the free Pr⁴⁺ (2.54μ_(B)) rather than Pr³⁺ (3.58μ_(B)). However, the
magnetic measurements are always complicated by the crystal-field
effect. Experimental evidence so far on Pr-containing high-T_(c) systems
implies a Pr³⁺ state. For example, detailed crystal-field splitting
schemes were obtained from inelastic neutron-scattering data based on
Pr³⁺ in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) with a quasitriplet ground state, which can be
used to derive a Curie-Weiss-like behavior and to generate the measured
magnetic susceptibility.[19, 20] Considering the structural similarity,
the same argument will likely be valid. Recently, Fehrenbacher and
Rice[21] proposed a more realistic picture, in which a Pr³⁺ ion is
hybridized to the adjacent two CuO₂ layers. From such an orbital (Pr-4f
and O-2ppp) overlap, Pr-Pr coupling can be greatly enhanced through a
superexchange mechanism. The negative paramagnetic intercept of −10.1 K
and the low-temperature deviation from the Curie-Weiss fit around 11 K
or this vacuum-annealed Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O₈ sample indicate the occurrence of
Pr long-range antiferromagnetic order. The exact T_(N) (Pr) value can be
obtained from the low-temperature differential molar magnetic
susceptibility dχ_(m)/dT as shown in Fig. 8. The transition occurs at

Figure 4: The much reduced splitting of orthorhombic (20l/02l)
diffraction lines for the oxygen-annealed Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O_(8 + y) (y = 1)
pseudotetragonal sample (a = 5.507 Å, b = 55.10 Å, c = 15.881 Å).

Figure 5: Orthorhombic unit-cell volume V of the vacuum-annealed
Pb₂Sr₂ReCu₃O₈ compounds versus rare earth R³⁺ ionic radius and Pr⁴⁺
ionic radius.

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of molar magnetic susceptibility χ_(m)
of vacuum-annealed Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O₈ in a 1-T applied magnetic field.

5.8 K in a 1-kG field and 6 K in a 1-T field, judging from the minima of
dχ_(m)/dT. This value is much higher than the reported $T_{N}({\rm Gd})$
= 2.3 K in Pb₂Sr₂GdCu₃O₈.² ⁻ ²⁴

For oxygen-annealed sample Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O_(8 + γ) (_y_ 1), a much low
negative paramagnetic intercept θ_(p) = -2.0 K was observed from inverse
magnetic susceptibility. The temperature dependence of dχ_(m)/dT
presented in Fig. 9 shows no minimum down to 2 K. However, a deviation
from the Curie-Weiss fit (solid line) indicates a possible Pr ordering
onset around 3 K. There is clearly a significant dependence of
$T_{N}({\rm Pr})$ on the oxygen content in the Pr-2213 system, but in a
direction opposite to that in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − γ) (17 K for y 0 and 10 K
for y 1). This needs to be taken into consideration toward a unified
model to interpret Pr-Pr effective magnetic coupling based on the
superexchange mechanism through hybridization between the extended Pr-4f
wave function and O-2p orbital of the adjacent two-CuO₂ layers. It is of
interest to note that, while the lattice parameters of the tetragonal
Tl(Ba_(1 − x)Sr_(x))₂PrCu₂O₇ Pr-1212 system decrease as expected with
increased Sr contents, the Pr-O bond length actually increases, yielding
a reduction of $T_{N}({\rm Pr})$ from 8 K for x = 0 to 4 K for x = 1.¹⁰

To supplement the magnetic studies on Pr ordering in Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O₈,
specific-heat measurements between 2 and 14 K were made. The data for
the vacuum-annealed sample shown in Fig. 10 gives a broad anomaly below
approximately 11 K (the same temperature where χ_(m) begins to deviate
from the Curie-Weiss fit), reaching a peak near the magnetically derived
$T_{N}({\rm Pr})$ = 6 K. It is possible that this $T_{N}({\rm Pr})$
represents the true three-dimensional or quasi-two-dimensional
long-range magnetic ordering, above which the extra specific heat arises
from 2D ordering effects with long-range 2D correlation below 11 K and
fluctuating short-range correlation extended to much higher
temperatures. The latter should be reflected in magnetic entropy
consideration. To better illustrate it, the temperature dependence of
C/T is shown in Fig. 11. The dashed line represents the sum of a large
heavy-fermion-like linear term γ T and a T³-dependent lattice
contribution C₁ = βT³ from the total specific heat. It is based on an
extrapolation from higher-temperature data in a C/T vs T² plot shown in
Fig. 12, where a large linear term coefficient γ of 200 mJ/mol K² and a
Debye temperature θ_(D) of 280 K are derived. A relatively small
magnetic entropy change ΔS_(m) = ∫ (C/T)dT ≈ 1.1 J/mol K is derived from
the magnetic anomaly between 11 and 2 K, which is equal to 19

Figure 8: Low-temperature differential molar magnetic susceptibility
dχ_(m)/dT for the vacuum-annealed Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O₈ sample in two different
applied fields of 1 kG and 1T.

Figure 10: Low-temperature molar specific heat C of vacuum-annealed
Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O₈ with a Pr ordering onset around 11 K and a specific-heat
peak at $T_{N}({\rm Pr})$ = 6.0 K.

Figure 9: Low-temperature differential molar magnetic susceptibility
dχ_(m)/dT for the oxygen-annealed Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O_(8 + γ) (_y_ 1) sample in
a 1-T applied field. The Curie-Weiss fit is indicated by the solid line.

structure consists of the nearest-neighbor spins that are aligned
antiparallel along all three crystallographic directions.[16]

The magnitude of magnetic entropy change ΔS_(m) seems to be closely
related to the dimensionality of the magnetic order. In the more 3D-like
Pr ordering in TlBa₂PrCu₂O₇ with T_(N)(Pr) = 8 K and onset at 10 K,[7,
8] a larger magnetic entropy change ΔS_(m) of 49

## IV Conclusion

In conclusion, this work on Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O_(8 + y) compounds adds to the
data base concerning many anomalous effects of antiferromagnetic Pr
ordering in high-T_(c) systems.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank Professor H. D. Yang and Professor W. H. Li for helpful
discussions. The work was supported by the National Science Council of
the Republic of China under Contract No. NSC83-0212-M007-069.

## References

* [1] A. Kebede, C. S. Jee, J. Schwegler, J. E. Crow, T. Mihalisin, G.
H. Myer, R. E. Salomon, P. Schlottmann, M. V. Kuric, S. H. Bloom, and R.
P. Guertin, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 4453 (1989). * [2] H. B. Radousky, J.
Mater. Res. **7**, 1917 (1992), and references cited therein. * [3] H.
C. Ku, C. C. Chen, and S. W. Hsu, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **2**, 1411
(1988). * [4] S. Uma, T. Sarker, M. Seshasayee, G. Rangarajan, C. R.
Venkateswara Rao, and C. Subramanian, Solid State Commun. **87**, 289
(1993). * [5] J. C. Ho, P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, C. W. Chu, and C. Y.
Hung, Solid State Commun. **63**, 711 (1987). * [6] J. W. Lynn, in _High
Temperature Superconductivity_, edited by J. W. Lynn (Springer-Verlag,
Berlin, 1990), Chap. 8, p. 268, and references cited therein. * [7] C.
C. Lai, B. S. Chiou, Y. Y. Chen, J. C. Ho, and H. C. Ku, Physica C
**202**, 1004 (1992). * [8] W. T. Hsieh, K. J. Chang, W. H. Li, K. C.
Lee, J. W. Lynn, C. C. Lai, and H. C. Ku, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12 200
(1994). * [9] H. C. Ku, C. C. Lai, J. H. Shieh, J. W. Liou, C. Y. Wu,
and J. C. Ho, Physica B **194-196**, 223 (1994). * [10] C. C. Lai, T. J.
Lee, H. K. Fun, H. C. Ku, and J. C. Ho, Phys. Rev. B (to be
published). * [11] Y. Gao, P. P. Pernambuco-Wise, J. E. Crow, J.
O’Reilly, H. Chen, and R. E. Salomon, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 7346
(1992). * [12] R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, J. J. Krajewski, L. W. Rupp, Jr.,
L. F. Schneemeyer, T. Siegrist, R. B. van Dover, P. Marsh, W. F. Peck,
Jr., P. K. Gallagher, S. H. Glarum, J. H. Marshall, R. C. Farrow, J. V.
Waszczak, R. Hull, and P. Trevor, Nature (London) **336**, 211 (1988). *
[13] M. A. Subramanian, J. Gopalakrishnan, C. C. Torardi, P. L. Gai, E.
D. Boyes, T. R. Askew, R. B. Fippen, W. E. Farneth, and A. W. Sleight,
Physica C **157**, 124 (1989). * [14] R. Prasad, N. C. Soni, K.
Adhikary, S. K. Malik, and C. V. Tomy, Solid State Commun. **76**, 667
(1990). * [15] R. J. Cava, M. Marezio, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr.,
A. Santoro, and F. Becch, Physica C **157**, 272 (1989). * [16] W. T.
Hsieh, W. H. Li, K. C. Lee, J. W. Lynn, J. H. Shieh,

Figure 11: C/T vs T of Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O₈ for entropy estimation. The dashed
curve is taken from Fig. 12 (C/T versus T²). The magnetic entropy change
between 2 and 11 K is ΔS = 1.1 J/mol K².

and H. C. Ku, J. Appl. Phys. (to be published). * [17] M. Marezio, A.
Santoro, J. J. Capponi, E. A. Hewat, R. J. Cava, and F. Beech, Physica C
**169**, 401 (1990). * [18] M. Marezio, A. Santoro, J. J. Capponi, R. J.
Cava, O. Chmaissen, and O. Huang, Physica C **199**, 365 (1992). * [19]
L. Soderholm, C. K. Loong, G. L. Goodman, and B. D. Dabrowski, Phys.
Rev. B **43**, 7923 (1991). * [20] G. Hilsher, E. Holland-Moritz, T.
Holubar, H. D. Jostarndt, V. Nekvasi, G. Schaudy, U. Walter, and G.
Fillion, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 535 (1994). * [21] R. Fehrenbacher and T.
M. Rice, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3471 (1993). * [22] H. Shieh and H. C.
Ku, Chin. J. Phys. **31**, 1169 (1993). * [23] C. Lai, J. H. Shieh, B.
S. Chiou, J. C. Ho, and H. C. Ku, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1499 (1994). *
[24] J. C. Ho, C. Y. Wu, C. C. Lai, J. H. Shieh, and H. C. Ku, Physica B
**194-196**, 203 (1994).
