# Superconducting properties of BeB_(2.75)

D. P. Young, R. G. Goodrich, and P. W. Adams

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, Louisiana 70803

Julia Y. Chan and Frank R. Fronczek

Department of Chemistry, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803

F. Drymiotis

National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Florida State University,
Tallahassee, Florida 32306

L. L. Henry

Department of Physics, Southern University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70813

###### Abstract

We present the low-temperature electronic transport properties of the
intermetallic commonly known as BeB₂. In contrast to the much simpler
AlB₂-type structure of the 39-K superconductor MgB₂, BeB₂ forms a
complex structure-type that is nearly unique in nature. The structure
has 110.5 atoms per unit cell and a stoichiometry BeB_(2.75).
Polycrystalline Be(^(10.8)B)_(2.75) is superconducting below T_(c) =
0.72 K with a critical magnetic field H_(c2) = 0.175 T. Isotopically
pure ¹⁰⁰B samples have an enhanced T_(c) = 0.79 K. Hall-effect
measurements suggest that the material is intrinsically compensated.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.65.180518 PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad, 61.66.-f,
74.25.Fy, 74.62.Bf + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

Over the last few years there has been a renewed interest in
intermetallic superconductors that incorporate relatively low-mass
elements. In the framework of BCS theory the lighter elements result in
higher frequency phonon modes that may in turn produce enhanced
transition temperatures. This idea is particularly well demonstrated in
pure, disordered Be films, which have one of the highest known elemental
superconducting transition temperatures T_(c) 10 K.1 Studies of
intermetallics containing boron have been particularly interesting and
fruitful,2 culminating in the recent discovery of 39-K superconductivity
in the relatively simple binary MgB₂.3 Naively one would hope to obtain
even higher transition temperatures by substituting Be for the Mg in
MgB₂ given that the atomic mass ratio of Mg to Be is M_(Mg)/M_(Be) =
2.25. Felner4 has recently reported susceptibility measurements of BeB₂
that show no sign of superconductivity down to 5 K. Recent
band-structure calculations of BeB₂, in which the AlB₂-type structure of
MgB₂ was assumed, indicate that the Fermi-surface topology of BeB₂ is
sufficiently modified from that of MgB₂ so as to preclude the
possibility of medium-T_(c) superconductivity.5 In this paper we
demonstrate that the compound commonly referred to as BeB₂ is much more
interesting than expected. Our single-crystal x-ray refinement of the
structure not only shows that the BeB₂ stoichiometry does not exist but
that the correct stoichiometry, BeB_(2.75), is _not_ isostructural with
MgB₂. Indeed, BeB_(2.75) forms a complex crystal structure6 that is
almost unique in nature–only two other compounds are known to have the
same structure.7 To our knowledge all previous electronic band
calculations5 of "BeB₂" have assumed an AlB₂-type structure and are
therefore nonphysical.

Footnote 5: 180518-1

Interestingly, we have discovered that BeB_(2.75) superconducts at a
transition temperature T_(c) = 0.72 K. Though this is somewhat low by
the standards of MgB₂, the fact that this proposed structure-type
supports superconductivity is interesting in itself. The interplay
between crystal structure, electron correlations, and disorder in a wide
variety of superconducting systems remains an outstanding issue in the
field. Indeed, some insight into how to raise T_(c) should emerge once
the electronic structure of BeB_(2.75) is known.

Though beryllium diboride has been known and studied for more than 40
years, there has been no firm evidence that this phase exists with
stoichiometry BeB₂. The space group of a compound reported to be BeB₂
(Ref. 8) was hexagonal _P6/mmm_ with lattice constants a = 0.979(2) nm
and c = 0.955(2) nm, but a full structure determination was not carried
out. In the present study Be plate (Alfa, 99.8

Low-temperature magnetotransport studies were made on samples cut from
polycrystalline buttons of BeB_(2.75). The resistance of rectangular
samples of typical dimensions 2 mm×0.5 mm×0.1 mm was measured using a
standard four-probe ac technique. The samples were cooled in a dilution
refrigerator down to 50 mK in magnetic fields up to 6 T. The
polycrystalline samples had room-temperature resistivities of ∼ 3000 μD
cm that changed very little upon cooling, falling only ∼ 10

Shown in Fig. 1 are the resistivities as a function of temperature of
two samples, one made from natural abundance ¹⁰B and the other from
isotopically pure ¹⁰B. It is evident from Fig. 1 that BeB_(2.75)
superconducts with T_(c)(¹⁰B) = 0.72 K and that the ¹⁰B sample has a
slightly enhanced T_(c)(¹⁰B) = 0.79 K. If the boron phonon modes are
solely responsible for mediating the superconductivity, then BCS theory
predicts that the ¹⁰B transition temperature should be enhanced by the
factor (10.8/10.0)^(α) where α = 1/2,^(10, 11)T_(c)(¹⁰B) in Fig. 2 is
about twice as large as the expected value T_(c)(¹⁰B) ∼
(1.04)T_(c)(¹⁰⁸B), suggesting that α ∼ 1. The deviation from α = 1/2 may
be due to the complexity of the BCS state in this material. It is also
possible that it is representative of nonphonon mediated
superconductivity.[12]

The open symbols in Fig. 1 were data taken in a field of 1 T that is
above the upper critical field H_(c2)≈0.18 T. Note that the normal-state
resistivity in Fig. 1 is temperature independent. We also found the
normal-state resistivity to be magnetic-field independent below 1 K.
This leads us to believe that the relatively high resistivity of our
samples is a consequence of a low carrier concentration and not
disorder. In Fig. 2 we show the resistive upper critical-field
transitions at several temperatures of the ¹⁰B sample. The increase of
the transition width with decreasing temperature (see inset of Fig. 3)
is indicative of flux flow broadening. This suggests that the BeB_(2.75)
is a type II superconductor, as is MgB_(2.75)[13] At T = 100 mK the
upper critical field is H_(c2) = 0.19 T, which gives a coherence length
ξ_(o) ∼ 30 nm. In Fig. 3 we plot the upper critical field, as measured
from the midpoints of the transitions in Fig. 2, as a function of the
reduced temperature

Figure 3: Upper critical field as a function of reduced temperature.
H_(c2) was taken as the midpoints of the transitions in Fig. 2. The
solid line is least-squares fit to the data points near the origin.
Inset: Critical field (10

Figure 2: Resistive upper critical field transitions for the ¹⁰B sample.

1 − T/T_(c) . Note the linearity of the data, in contrast to the more
typical quadratic dependence seen in many BCS superconductors [10]. The
solid line in Fig. 3 is a linear least-squares fit to the data points
near the origin, and has a slope dH_(c2)/dT∼0.2 T/K. Similar linearity
was also obtained from critical fields determined by an onset criterion.

In the main body of Fig. 4 we show measurements of the zero-field
specific heat from 0.3 to 300 K, which were made using a heat-pulse
decay method. Using data between 10 and 20 K to extract the phonon
contribution, we find a Debye temperature Θ_(D)∼1000 K. Shown as a solid
line in Fig. 4 is the expected high-temperature Debye specific heat. It
is evident that there is a comparable contribution to the specific heat
from an optical phonon. Fits to the data gave an Einstein temperature of
700 K for this mode. Low-temperature C_(p)/T measurements are plotted as
a function of T² in the inset Fig. 4. The normal-state electronic
contribution to the specific heat γ was determined to be 0.6 mJ/mole K².
Note the well defined jump in specific heat at the superconducting
transition. The magnitude of specific-heat discontinuity at T_(c) is
ΔC_(p)/C_(p)∼2.3 that is somewhat larger than the BCS value
ΔC_(p)/C_(p)=1. [10]

In conclusion we find that the compound commonly refered to as BeB₂
superconductors below T_(c)∼0.72 K if made from natural abundance boron.
However, x-ray analysis reveals that BeB₂ is unstable, and that the
correct stoichiometry BeB_(2, 75) has a complex and rare crystalline
structure-type. Both the isotope effect and the specific-heat
discontinuity at T_(c) are significantly larger than predicted by BCS
theory. Like the perovskites [14, 15] and the C₆₀ fullerenes [16], the
structural framework of BeB_(2, 75) may be playing an important role in
its superconducting behavior. At this point we do not know which
specific components of the structure are responsible for the
superconductivity [6].

We gratefully acknowledge useful discussions with Dana Browne, John
DiTusa, Richard Kurtz, Art Ramirez, and Vladimir Butko. This work was
supported by the NSF under Grant No. DMR 99-72151 and the Louisiana
Education Quality Support Fund under Grant Nos. 2001-04-RD-A-11 and
2001-04-RD-A-05.

## References

* [1] B.G. Lazarev, A.I. Sudovtsov, and A.P. Smirnov, Zh. Eksp. Teor.
Fiz. **33**, 1059 (1957) [JETP **6**, 816 (1958)]; K. Takei, K.
Nakamura, and Y. Maeda, J. Appl. Phys. **57**, 5093 (1985). * [2] R.
Nagarajan _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 274 (1994); R.J. Cava _et
al._, Nature (London) **376**, 146 (1994). * [3] J. Nagamatsu, N.
Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J. Adimitsu, Nature (London)
**410**, 63 (2001). * [4] I. Felner, Physica C **353**, 11 (2001). * [5]
N.I. Medvedeva, A.L. Ivanovskii, J.E. Medvedeva, and A.J. Freeman, Phys.
Rev. B **64**, 020502 (2001). * [6] The stoichiometry can be written
equivalently as Be₁₀₉B₂ in order to highlight the fact that there are Be
vacancies in the structure, see Julia Y. Chan, Frank R. Fronczek, D.P.
Young, J.F. DiTusa, and P.W. Adams, J. Solid State Chem. **163**, 385
(2002). * [7] The other two compounds believed to have the structure are
ternaries, AlB₅₁Be₁₇ and AlB₅₇Be₁₇. The structure-type is named after
the latter compound. V.R. Mattes _et al._, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem.
**413**, 1 (1975). * [8] D.E. Sands _et al._, Acta Crystallogr. **14**,
309 (1961); C.L. Hoenig, C.F. Cline, and D.E. Sands, J. Am. Ceram. Soc.
**44**, 385 (1961). * [9] D.A. Browne, R.L. Kurtz, J.Y. Chan, and F.R.
Fronczek (unpublished). * [10] M. Tinkam, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_, 2nd ed. (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996). * [11] A
boron isotope effect has also been reported in MgB₂. S.L. Budko _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). * [12] J.E. Hirsch, Phys.
Lett. A **282**, 392 (2001). * [13] D.K. Finnemore _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **86**, 2420 (2001). * [14] J.G. Bednorz and K.A. Muller, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **60**, 585 (1988). * [15] T. He _et al._, Nature (London)
**411**, 54 (2001). * [16] A.F. Hebard _et al._, Nature (London)
**350**, 600 (1991); O. Gunnarsson, Rev. Mod. Phys. **69**, 575 (1997).

Figure 4: Circles are the specific heat of Be¹⁰⁸B_(2.75) as a function
of temperature in zero field. The line is an estimation of the Debye
contribution using Θ_(D)∼1000 K, which was extracted from data between
10 K and 20 K. Inset: Specific-heat jump associated with the
superconducting transition at T_(c)∼0.72 K.
