Comparison of pinning parameters between low-T_(c) superconductors and
YBa₂Cu₃O⁷ ⁻ ⁸

H. Kupfer

Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe, Institut fur Technische Physik and
Universitat Karlsruhe, Postfach 3640, D-76021 Karlsruhe, Germany

A. A. Zhukov

Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe, Institut fur Technische Physik, Postfach
3640, D-76027 Karlsruhe, Germany

and Physics Department, Moscow State University, 117234 Moscow, Russia

R. Kresse, R. Meier-Hirmer, W. Jahn, and T. Wolf

Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe, Institut fur Technische Physik and
Universitat Karlsruhe, Postfach 3640, D-76021 Karlsruhe, Germany

T. Matsushita

Department of Computer Science and Electronics, Kyushu Institute of
Technology, 680-4 Kawazu, Iizuka 820, Japan

K. Kimura

Advanced Materials and Technology Research Laboratories, Nippon Steel
Co., 1618 Ida, Nakahara-Ku, Kawasaki 211, Japan

K. Salama

Department of Mechanical Engineering, Texas Center of Superconductivity
at University of Houston, Houston, Texas 7704

###### Abstract

ac flux-profile measurements are used to determine the current density
j, the reversible penetration depth λ^(′) of a pinned flux lattice, and
the reversible displacement d, which is the distance flux can move
before being unpinned. Both parameters λ^(′) and d describe the elastic
regime of the interaction between vortices and defects whereas the
current corresponds to the maximum elastic or plastic distortion. The
influence of thermal relaxation on these parameters and on ac
measurements in general is discussed. Anomalous features of the flux
profiles observed in various low-T_(c) superconductors are correlated
with the saturation of the current based on plastic deformation of the
vortex lattice. A comparison with flux profiles from single-crystalline
and melt-textured YBa₂Cu₃O⁷ ⁻ ⁸ shows the same anomalous feature. This
demonstrates the importance of plastic shear also in high-T_(c)
superconductors which seems to be present in the whole magnetic-field
regime. Collective pinning and the related peak effect of the current in
V₃Si are compared with the fishtail effect in YBa₂Cu₃O⁷ ⁻ ⁸ single
crystals. The different magnetic-field dependences of λ^(′) and d in the
region of maximum current point to differences between these
observations. Decreasing current correlated with decreasing λ^(′) in
specimens with a fishtail are related to a softening of the vortex
lattice at fields below the maximum current. This anomalous feature is
not observed in samples with a current continuously decreasing with
magnetic field.

21 March 1995

## I Introduction

The current density j that is carried by a superconductor at tolerable
low electric fields E is a crucial parameter for a variety of possible
applications in high-T_(c) materials. Investigations of the current
dependence on the electric and magnetic field B and temperature T have
not yet resulted in a consistent pinning model for j neither in
low-T_(c) (LTSC), nor in high-T_(c) superconductors (HTSC). One main
problem is the correlation between j and the defect structure of the
material which pins the vortex lattice and–for the theoretical modeling
especially–whether this interaction leads to elastic or plastic
deformation of the vortex lattice. This information is of basic
importance for any pinning model. A weak discrimination between both
mechanisms may be obtained from the magnetic-field dependence of j and
its saturation behavior, i.e., about constant current despite increasing
strength of the defect structure as investigated in a variety of
LTSC.¹ ⁻ ⁴ Other pinning parameters offer more direct information
concerning this and other problems of the pinning phenomenon. One of
them–the reversible penetration depth λ^(′) describes the characteristic
length within which a distortion of the pinned flux lattice decays.⁵
This length becomes smaller with increasing strength of the pinning
interaction and with decreasing vortex-vortex interaction, opposite to
the behavior of j. Upper and lower limits of this quantity are the
sample size and the London penetration depth, respectively. The
reversible penetration depth can be measured from the ac response of the
superconductor to an ac magnetic field with sufficiently small
amplitude.

The second parameter is the reversible displacement d which represents
the distance of reversible motion of the vortices within the effective
pinning potential.⁶ This length corresponds to the linear part of the
force displacement curve of pinned vortices and reflects approximately
the displacement before vortices become unpinned or the size of the
potential. The reversible displacement is related to the Labusch
parameter α, i.e., the slope of the restoring force in the linear
regime, and to the equation

j = Bd/(μ₀λ^(′2))

. The value can be measured from the ac-induced voltage, from ac
transport current,7 or it may be calculated from Eq. (1) if j and _l_’
are measured. The ratio d divided by the mean distance between vortices
a is expected to be about constant as long as the pinning interaction
does not change. In LTSC _d/a_ was found to be in the region between 0.5
and 0.1. The larger value is expected in the direct summation limit for
elementary pinning forces or in the case where plastic shear between
vortices determine j whereas the lower value is related to collective
pinning. The value _d/a_ decreases if the elastic interaction between
vortices dominates.8-10 A comparison of these parameters between LTSC
and HTSC allows one to study the influence of properties specific to
HTSC as short coherence length, large anisotropy, and high temperatures
on the pinning interaction. Based on results from LTSC it allows further
to check high-_T__c_ pinning models not only by investigating the
current.

In this paper we discuss measurements of j and _l_’ on NbTi, V3Si,
PbMo6S8, and on YBa2Cu3O7-_b_. In Sec. II some experimental details
about samples and measurements are given. In Sec. III we investigate the
influence of thermally activated relaxation on ac magnetic measurements
with respect to the determination of j and _l_’. It is shown that the
rearrangement of flux caused by the ac field is not determined by the
_E(j)_ characteristics because the time-dependent electric field at the
surface is not in equilibrium with the current inside the sample. A
comparison of j, _l_’, and _d/a_ between LTSC and HTSC is made in Sec.
III. Conclusions concerning plastic flow of the vortex lattice and the
relation between the _j_(_B_) "peak effect" in LTSC and the "fishtail"
in HTSC are discussed.

## II Experimental

Magnetic flux-profile measurements were made on various LTSC and HTSC
samples by an ac method after Rollins _et al._11 In the nonlinear
_E_(_j_) regime this method allows us to obtain the radial distribution
of j and at certain conditions the reversible penetration depth of a
pinned flux lattice _l_’ and the corresponding reversible displacement
d. As in all measurements of magnetic moments the length scale must be
known within which the induced shielding currents flow. In the
investigated nongranular LTSC and HTSC single crystalline and
melt-textured YBa2Cu3O7-_b_ this is the macroscopic sample size. An ac
magnetic field was applied and the change of flux was detected by a
pickup coil. This induced voltage which corresponds to reversible and
irreversible motion of vortices was measured as a function of time with
a transient recorder. The measurements were made at frequencies f
between 1 Hz and 1 kHz at magnetic fields sufficiently below the
irreversibility field where ac losses from flux flow can be neglected. A
part of the reversible signal results from the region in the sample
where the change of the ac field is too small in order to unpin the
vortex lattice. The irreversible part is due to the hysteretic losses of
the vortices changing the flux gra

  -------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ----------------------- --
                                                                                                                                                                      Ginzburg-Landau      Upper critical      
     Specimen                                                                        Preparation                                                                         parameter      irreversibility field  
       NbTi                                              Nb 49 weight % Ti, cold drawn to 1.1 mm in diameter, area reduction                                                ≈ 70           B_(c2) ≈ 10.4 T     
       V3Si       104, heat treated at 380 °C for 10 h. Single crystals, annealed at 1800 °C for 3 weeks, irradiated with fast neutrons at different fluences Ph_t_   29.6 at 11.3 K                           
       (1)                                                                      Ph_t_ = 2 × 1022 m−2                                                                       17.3            B_(c2) ≈ 5.6 T      
     PbMo6S8                                                                Polycrystalline bulk material                                                                  ≈ 100          B_(int) ≈ 11.6 T     
   YBa2Cu3O7−8                                                                                                                                                                                 at 10 K         
       (1)                                                                   Stack of 10 single crystals                                                                                   B_(int) ≈ 3.8 T     
       (2)                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
       (3)                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
   precipitates                                                                                                                                                                                at 77 K         
  -------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ----------------------- --

Table 1: Survey of the measured specimens.

dient from one sign to the opposite. Based on the critical state with a
steplike voltage current characteristics a calculation of the flux
profile from the measured induced voltage versus time results in a curve
which is not a straight line through the origin as expected for
homogeneously distributed pinning centers. The unexpected flat part at
the surface of the profile represents the reversible penetration depth
_l_’ and is caused by the purely reversible signal just after the
external ac field _b_(_t_) changes the sign of derivative _db_/_dt_.
With increasing ac field the irreversible motion dominates resulting in
a straight line for larger distances from the surface. The gradient of
this part of the flux profile corresponds to the current density.
Accompanying measurements were made on the same specimens with a
vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM) (Oxford 3001), in order to obtain
_E_(_j_) characteristics from the normalized creep rate and the time
constant t which describes the rearrangement of flux after a change of
the electric field E at the surface of the sample. Both ac flux profile
and VSM measurements were made on cylindrical specimens at which the
applied ac and dc fields were directed parallel to the cylinder axis.
For the investigations of the single crystalline YBa2Cu3O7-_b_ we used a
stack of ten crystals from the same batch with typical size 2 x 2 x 0.3
mm. The crystals were mechanically processed into a cylindrical shape of
1.5 mm in diameter. After this they were measured separately by VSM in
order to select samples with a variation of j and of the irreversibility
field _B_itr less than 10

## III Results and Discussion

### Flux profile and reversible penetration depth

In the first part of this section we discuss general problems of
determining pinning parameters from ac magnetic flux-profile
measurements. We assume a cylindrically shaped specimen with radius R,
the parameter x corresponds to the distance from the surface. The
position and time dependence of the electric field _E_(_x_,_t_) is
determined by the applied ac magnetic field _b_(_t_) at the surface and
by the penetration depth of the ac field _x_(_t_). If the maximum
penetration depth is much smaller than the radius: _x_(_T_/2)/_R_ < 1
the electric field in the region 0 <= x <= _x_(_t_) is approximately
obtained from the equation: _E_(_xt_,_t_) = (_db_/_dt_)(_xt_) - x.

The penetration depth _x_(_t_) is given by the electric-field dependence
of the current and its radial distribution _j_(_x_,_E_). Because the
experimental results show a position-independent current, i.e., no
surface barrier or surface pinning, we discuss in the following only the
case of a homogeneous current density.

We assume first a steplike voltage-current characteristics: E = 0 for
j ≤ j_(c) where j_(c) is the critical current density without thermally
activated depinning. For a power-like approximation _E_(_j_) =
_E_c(_j_/_j__c_)" this corresponds to an infinite exponent n. The
related voltage in the superconducting state induced in the pickup coil
is

U_(s)(t) = U_(rec)(t){1 − [1 − x(t)/R]²}

with U_(rec)(t) ∼ (db/dt)πR² representing the induced voltage in the
normal conducting state where the skin penetration depth is much larger
than R.11 From the measured _U_nc(_t_) and _U_s(_t_) _x_(_t_)/_R_ can be
calculated and the flux profile _B_(_x_/_R_) is reconstructed plotting
_B_(_x_(_t_)) versus _x_(_t_)/_R_ with t as parameter _B_(_x_(_t_)) is
obtained from the symmetry of the flux profile: _B_(0_,_t_) -
_B_(_x_(_t_)) = _B_(_x_(_t_)) - _B_(0,0) which can be checked
experimentally by comparing U_(s)(0 ≤ t ≤ T/2) with U_(s)(T/2 ≤ t ≤ T).
The schematic drawing in Fig. 1 shows _B_(_x_/_R_) for t = 0, t = _T_/2
and for a time t with _T_/_4_ < t < _T_/2 (thick line).

This picture must be modified because if flux lines become unpinned by
the change of the direction of the Lorentz force at _x_(_t_)/_R_ they
must move a finite distance in order to become pinned and to build up
the critical state again. This means that the conversion from j_(c) to -
j_(c) at _x_(_t_)/_R_ needs a characteristic length which is given by
Campbell’s reversible penetration depth _l_’. The corresponding
reversible induced signal _U_rev(_t_) results from the area around
_x_(_t_)/_R_. In the time interval 0 <= t <= _t_rev no irreversible
signal is present. The field _b_(_t_rev) is the amplitude at which
irreversibility starts. The corresponding change of the flux profiles is
schematically shown by the dotted lines in Fig. 1. The measurable
induced signal _U_i(_t_) is the superposition from _U_s(_t_) and
_U_rev(_t_). For 0 <= t <= _t_rev no irreversible flux movement occurs,
U_(s)(_t_) is zero up to _t_rev, and the obtained flux profile using
_U_i(_t_) in Eq. (2) shows zero current in this

Figure 1: Schematic drawing of the flux-profile magnetic field B vs
distance x from the surface normalized by the sample radius R. The
applied field is the stationary field _B_dc plus the ac field _b_(_t_).
The thick line represents the flux profile for increasing _b_(_t_) at
the time t. The momentary penetration depth of the ac field is given by
_x_(_t_). The dashed and the dashed-dotted line correspond to the
profiles at t = 0 and t = _T_/2, respectively. The dotted lines
represent the changes if the response of the elastic regime of the
interaction is considered.

time interval. This corresponding flat part in Fig. 2 is equal to
λ^(′)/R. With increasing penetration depth U_(s)(t) dominates in
comparison to $U_{\rm rev}(t)$ and the flux profile approaches towards
the result from the pure irreversible flux motion (dashed line in Fig.
2). A more realistic case must assume irreversible flux motion also for
fields below $b(t_{\rm rev})$ for reasons which are discussed below. In
this case the slope of db/d(x/R) for 0 ≤ x ≤ λ^(′) is not zero and it
does not become infinite at x = λ^(′).

The next step is to consider thermally activated relaxation of the
pinned flux lattice. This influence on the flux-profile measurement may
be divided into two parts: finite exponent n which changes U_(s) and an
additional voltage $U_{\rm Th}$ from flux movement. The first part is
due to the finite steepness of the voltage-current characteristics which
results in a current density j smaller than j_(c) for the same electric
field at a constant position x. The time structure of the applied ac
field itself becomes important because it determines E and results in a
time-dependent current density. The dashed line in Fig. 3 represents as
before n = ∞ from Fig. 1, whereas the thick line corresponds to a flux
profile with a finite n. At t = 0 and t = T/2db/dt becomes zero and the
penetration depth x(t)/R increases in comparison to the unrelaxed case.
Zero db/dt does not mean j = 0 because as discussed below E(j) of the
flux profile is not in an equilibrium state like in a free transient
decay of a magnetic moment from an induced shielding current. Besides,
in the approximate calculation of x(t)/R in the case of a finite
steepness of E(j), a second problem arises from the calculation of
B(x(t)) because the flux profile becomes asymmetric with respect to
B(x(t)).

The second part that influences the flux-profile measurement results
from relaxation of the flux profile. The flux front decays and induces a
signal $U_{\rm Th}(t)$ which does not follow the time structure of the
applied ac field. Especially $U_{\rm Th}$ becomes a maximum at t = 0 or
t = T/2 where the region of the decay extends from the surface up to the
maximum penetration depth. The signal $U_{\rm Th}$ has opposite sign as
U_(s) and $U_{\rm rev}$ and causes a shift Δt of the time between
$U_{\rm nc}(0)=0$ and U_(i)(Δt) = 0. The related flux profile from
measured $U_{i}=U_{\rm rev}+U_{s}+U_{\rm Th}$ is schematically shown in
Fig. 4. The finite field at the surface results from using Eq. 2 for
U_(i) ≥ 0 at t ≥ Δt and corresponds to [B(0, Δt) − B(0, 0)/2. This value
reflects therefore an indirect measure of thermally activated flux
movement. The phase shift Δt and the signal $U_{\rm Th}$ (t = 0) which
can be measured were related by Kerchener [12] to thermally activated
flux creep based on the Anderson-Kim [13] model. Using Eq. (17) and (23)
of Ref. [12] we calculated from the measured $U_{\rm th}(t=0)$ and Δt
the normalized creep rate S and compared these data with those obtained
from a free transient decay of the shielding current measured with a
vibrating sample magnetometer $S({\rm VSM})=j^{-1}(dj/d\ln t)$. Figure 5
shows $S(U_{\rm th})$ values from $U_{\rm Th}(t=0)$ which are one order
of magnitude smaller than $S({\rm VSM})$ from the time-dependent decay
of j. This difference cannot be related to the different electric fields
used for the measurements $[E\approx 0.04\ \mu{\rm V/cm}\ ({\rm VSM})$
and $E\approx 1\ \mu{\rm/cm}\ ({\rm flux}\ {\rm profile})]$. It
demonstrates that the flux-profile decays much slower than expected from
a free transient decay. The flux profile between x(t) and x(T/2) is not
in equilibrium with the electric field at the surface. The
redistribution of flux towards this equilibrium state is governed by the
time constant τ.[14] In the time region 0 ≤ t ≤ τ redistribution of flux
dominates and the decay of j is much slower than in the equilibrium
state for t > γ. Because the ac measurements were done in the time
regime t < τ we expect lower influence of relaxation in accordance with
$S({\rm VSM})>S(U_{\rm Th})$ from Fig. 5. This was further proved from a
comparison between the τ values measured with a VSM and the
characteristic time T = f⁻¹ of the ac field. The inset of Fig. 6 shows
how τ is obtained from a measurement of the magnetic moment m vs t for
$E=2\times 10^{-5}\ \mu{\rm V/cm}$. Figure 6 shows

Figure 4: Schematic drawing of a calculated flux profile (thick line)
with the same assumptions as in Fig. 3 but taken into account an induced
signal from thermally activated flux movement.

Figure 3: Schematic drawing of a calculated flux profile (thick line)
with the same assumptions as in Fig. 2 but replacing the steplike E(j)
characteristics by a E(j) with finite steepness.

τ(B) for E = 0.2μV/cm based on the proved relation τ = K(dm/dln t)/E
with K representing a geometry factor.[15] The dashed line which
corresponds to T/2 for a frequency of 100 Hz (E = 0.2μV/cm) is clearly
below τ. This holds for all frequencies because the ratio τ/T is
independent of E, i.e., a change from t < τ to t > τ can only be
realized by a variation of dm/dln t with magnetic field or temperature.
At 77 K this occurs for B > 3 T where dm/dln t and therefore τ becomes
sufficiently small. In this case $U_{\rm Th}$ from relaxation results
predominantly from the time regime t > τ, in accordance with Fig. 5
where $S(U_{\rm Th})$ becomes comparable to S(VSM) at higher magnetic
fields. In the vicinity of the irreversibility line where the current
approaches zero, naturally the region τ < t is reached and both S values
should be the same. But if ac measurements are made in the time region
t < τ, as in this work, the related creep rates do not correspond to
those from magnetization measurements made at t >  > τ.

Both contributions from relaxation influence the determination of j and
λ^(′) differently. The error of the j value is small if the gradient of
the flux profile is taken from its steepest part at about t = T/4 where
E approaches its maximum and U_(s) dominates. In this case also
sinusoidal and triangular ac fields result in very similar j values for
the same ac amplitude and frequency. The frequency dependence may be
used for the determination of E(j) characteristics as shown in Fig. 7.
The influence from relaxation on λ^(′), however, is much more severe
because this parameter is obtained from the time region of pronounced
thermal flux movement. The time dependence of the corresponding signal
$U_{\rm Th}(t)$ cannot be calculated and therefore no analytical
separation between $U_{\rm rev}(t)$ and $U_{\rm Th}(t)$ is possible at
the present stage. Also the frequency or E dependence of λ^(′), as shown
in Fig. 7, does not allow to account for the relaxation influence. This
λ^(′)(E) relation is governed by the E dependence of j, d, and
$U_{\rm Th}$ from which only j(E) can be measured. The measurements
shown in Fig. 7 give approximately j ∼ E^(1/3), λ^(′) ∼ E^(−1/3), and
therefore j ∼ λ^(′ − 1). This result contradicts Eq. (2) and
demonstrates the importance of the unknown E dependence of d and
$U_{\rm Th}$. It should be mentioned again that only
$U_{\rm Th}(t\!=\!0,E)$ can be measured but not its time dependence. For
this reason we used an indirect method to recognize the influence of
relaxation on λ^(′). We compared flux profiles from a sinusoidal–and
from a triangular applied ac field obtained with the same frequency and
amplitude, this means with the same current. The measured $U_{\rm Th}$
at t = 0, shown in Fig. 8, reveals large differences demonstrating
different relaxation rates in both measurements. Therefore different
λ^(′) values obtained from sinusoidal or triangular ac fields are
expected if $U_{\rm Th}(t\!=\!0)$ from relaxation does not become

Figure 5: Normalized creep rate S = j⁻¹(dj/dln t) vs B from measurements
with a vibrating sample magnetometer S(VSM) and from the measured
voltage $U_{\rm Th}$. The value S($U_{\rm Th}$) is related to flux creep
of the ac-induced flux profile. The measurements are made at 77 K.

Figure 6: Time constant τ vs B at 77 K for an electric field of
E = 0.2μV/cm. The dashed line indicates half the time period of the
frequency f = 100 Hz which is equivalent to 0.2μV/cm at the sample
surface. The inset shows a measurement of magnetic moment vs ln t at
T = 77 K, B = 1 T, E = 2 × 10⁻¹⁵μV/cm from which τ is obtained.

Figure 7: Current density j and reversible penetration depth λ^(′) vs
electric field E obtained from a variation of the frequency between
f = 1 Hz and 1 kHz but constant are amplitude. The measurements, shown
for 77 K, 3 T, are not consistent with j ∼ λ² which points to the
influence of d(E) and $U_{\rm Th}(t,E)$. Measurements at lower B fields
come closer to j ∼ λ^(′2) in agreement with steeper E(j)
characteristics.

negligible. Figure 9 shows the ratio λ^(′) obtained from a triangular ac
signal divided by the value from a sinusoidal signal. This ratio is
about 1.1 and remains constant in the magnetic-field regime up to 2 T
where the exponent n is still above 5. At higher fields the ratio
increases because relaxation becomes more pronounced and influences the
determination of λ^(′). For this reason we restrict our discussion on
λ^(′) to the B, T region with n > 5 where the influence of relaxation is
still a small perturbation. The λ^(′) values become larger if relaxation
increases especially with increasing $U_{\rm Th}(t=0)$. For a triangular
ac field $U_{\rm Th}(t=0)$ is always larger (Fig. 8) because the
constant db/dt prevents a smooth approach towards the equilibrium state
at t = 0, T/2 as in the case for a sinusoidal field with db/dt
approaching zero. The n values in Fig. 9 were obtained from a power-law
approximation of the E(j) characteristics.

Flux profiles in HTSC investigated so far do not show the shape as
expected from Fig. 4. The signal in the region 0 ≤ x ≤ λ^(′) is not
completely reversible which results in a finite slope of db/d(x/R) for
x < λ^(′) and in a less pronounced change of the slope at x = λ^(′). As
an example flux profiles from a single crystal YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (1) at 77 K are
shown in Fig. 10. The arrow indicates the λ^(′) value determined from an
extrapolation of b(x) to b = 0 in the region of maximum slope db/d(x/R).
But also LTSC show only in certain B and T regions the predicted flux
profiles. In all investigations made in well characterized homogeneous
low-T_(c) specimens the shape of the flux profiles change continuously
with increasing B or T from the expected shape to a shape very similar
as in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − b). Figures 11(a)−11(c) demonstrate this for NbTi,
for fast neutron-irradiated V₃Si and for PbMo₆S₈. Flux profiles at the
lowest reduced field shown in Figs. 11(a)−11(c) correspond to the
expected shape, in contrast to the larger reduced fields at which the
anomalous behavior becomes more pronounced with increasing field. As
mentioned above the unusual feature is the nonzero slope of db/d(x/R) in
the region 0 ≤ x ≤ λ^(′). In the following we discuss possible
explanations for the deviation from the expected shape of the flux
profile.

(1) Relaxation as a first possibility can be rejected as being the main
reason based on the comparison between Figs. 8 and 9 and the
corresponding discussion above: different relaxation rates between
triangular and sinusoidal applied ac field do not result in different
λ^(′) values or different slopes for 0 ≤ x ≤ λ^(′).

Figure 8: Voltage $U_{\rm Th}$ at the time were the derivative of the
applied ac field is zero vs B at 77 K. The values are normalized with
the amplitude of the voltage in the normal conducting state
$U_{\rm nc}$. The measurements are made with a triangular (tr) and a
sinusoidal (sin) applied ac field with the same frequency and amplitude.
The insets show U_(i)(t) at T=77 K, B=1.7 T and $U_{\rm nc}(t)$ for a
sinusoidal applied ac field. On the time scale the arrows indicate t=0
and t = T/2. The right inset is an amplification of the area around t=0
from which $U_{\rm Th}=U_{i}(t=0)$ is obtained.

Figure 10: Flux profiles B(x/R) at 77 K measured at different reduced
fields $B/B_{\rm irr}$ with an ac amplitude of b= 5 mT and a frequency
of 312 Hz. The distance x from the surface is normalized with the radius
R of the sample and with the penetration at b= 2 mT. For clarity the
surface (x/R)=0 is shifted for $B/B_{\rm irr}=$0.35 and 0.2 to different
positions on the abscissa. The value b=0 corresponds to the stationary
field B. The inset shows the volume pinning force reduced with its
maximum value versus reduced field $B/B_{\rm irr}$.

Figure 9: Ratio of the reversible penetration depths from a triangular
and from a sinusoidal applied ac field
$\lambda^{\prime}_{\rm tr}/\lambda^{\prime}_{\rm sin}$ vs B at 77 K
(filled circles). The open squares show the exponent n of the
voltage-current characteristics E ∼ j^(n).

(2) An inhomogeneous surface layer with a lower j than the bulk value
offers a straightforward explanation. But it can be excluded for the
LTSC in Figs. 11(a)-11(c) as well as for the studied YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
specimens. In all these investigations λ^(′) values vary as a function
of B or T by more than one order in magnitude. This would require a
variation of the thickness of the hypothetical surface layer in quite
the same way which makes this possibility very doubtful. Further the
obtained j_(i), λ^(′), and d values are consistent with Eq. (1), i.e.,
j ∼ λ^(′ − 2) is roughly fulfilled which also makes a correlation
between λ^(′) and an inhomogeneous region at the surface very
improbable.

(3) A third possibility may result from a granular behavior of the
current. In this case decoupling between the quite different inter- and
intragrain current densities causes a change of the slope _db/d_ (_x/R_)
if the intergrain screening capability is exhausted. The lower
intergrain current, from the surface up to the field where the
intergrain screening is saturated may also lead to a misinterpretation
of λ^(′). But the same arguments used for the discussion of the surface
layer are also suitable for an exclusion of this possibility. Further
magnetic and transport current measurements of the studied HTSC
specimens rejected directly a decoupling.[16, 17]

(4) An increase of the reversible signal, more than expected from the
measured current density was observed in the geometry B ∥ a, b in
melt-textured YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).[18] These larger λ^(′) values were
related to the presence of internal surfaces from cracks. However, it
was demonstrated that this explanation is not applicable for the
geometry B ∥ c in the present investigated melt-textured YBa₂Cu₃O₇
specimens.[17]

(5) A distribution of the elementary pinning forces may lead to a
depinning of flux lines at pinning sites with a lower force. This
results in an irreversible flux movement at distances below the average
λ^(′) values. But also, this possibility becomes questionable from the
observation that distorted flux profiles in LTSC are only observed in a
certain field region as discussed in detail below.

(6) An irreversible behavior of a part of the flux lattice within the
region of global reversible motion[19] may result from plastic
deformation of the flux lattice if locally the shear force becomes
smaller than the pinning force.

Weakly interacting pointlike defects in the presence of stronger pinning
centers in HTSC and the large Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ favoring the
presence of flux-lattice defects and decrease the shear force of the
flux lattice in comparison to the pinning force. Both support the last
explanation as the dominating reason for the unexpected flux profiles.
This holds also for the low-T_(c) specimens where a transition from an
elastic distorted flux lattice to a plastic distortion were proved by
history effects and found just in the region below the maximum volume
pinning force where the flux profiles changed their shape. In PbMo₆S₈
with κ similar to YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), even at very low fields the flux
profiles do not become regular [Fig. 11(c)] comparable to the HTSC.
Further one expects a less pronounced dependence of the current on the
properties of the defect structure if the Lorentz force is balanced by
the shear force of the flux lattice. Such a saturationlike behavior,
related to plastic defor

Figure 11: (a)–(c) Flux profiles B (x/R) measured at different reduced
fields. The temperatures as well as B_(c2) and $B_{\rm irr}$ are given
in Table 1. The ordinate is normalized with the ac field,
$b_{\rm rad}\!=\!0$ corresponds to the stationary field B. The distance
x from the surface is normalized with the radius R of the sample and
with the penetration at a certain applied ac field.
$\left(x/R\right)_{\rm rad}\!=\!1$ does not correspond to the maximum
penetration of the ac field. The insets give the volume pinning force
reduced with its maximum value versus reduced field.

mation, is observed in the LTSC of Figs. 11(a)−11(c).[4, 10, 20, 21] The
influence of saturation is restricted to the higher-field region where
the shear modulus of the flux lattice and the related shear force
decrease faster with B than the pinning force. Below the maximum of the
volume pinning force F_(p) = B ⋅ j the depinning process determines the
current which results in a normal flux profile. The insets in Figs.
11(a)−11(c) show the reduced volume pinning force vs reduced field for
the three LTSC specimens. Above the maximum of F_(p) at which the defect
structure is of lower influence due to plastic deformation, the flux
profile starts to deviate from the ideal shape. Transferring this
correlation between plastic deformation and unusual flux profile to the
HTSC, it indicates that in the YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) specimens plastic
deformation of the flux lattice is present in the whole B and T area
similar as in PbMo₆S₈. This mechanism may not dominate but besides the
depinning it influences the behavior of the current. This is also in
accordance with the absence of history effects in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) and
PbMo₆S₈ wires because there is no change from plastic to elastic
distortion of the flux lattice. Further the saturation of j in HTSC
correlated with plastic deformation was partly observed and
discussed.[22]−[25]

### Comparison of pinning parameters between low- and high-T_(c)
superconductors

In this section we investigate pinning parameters and their relation to
pinning models especially to the origin of the fishtail in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). A general discussion of this phenomenon and the
influence of the oxygen content is given in Ref. [24]. The measurements
on YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) are made with 30 Hz whereas 11.6 Hz were used for
investigating V₃Si. The variation of the electric fields from the
different frequencies and sample sizes is of negligible influence on the
results due to the sufficiently large steepness of the E(j)
characteristics. Figure 12 shows λ^(′)(B) determined from the flux
profiles and the ratio reversible displacement divided by the mean flux
distance d/a obtained from Eq. (1). The measurements of Fig. 12 are made
on a melt-textured sample YBa₂Cu₂O₇ (2), showing a continuously
decreasing current density with B. The reversible penetration depth is
in the region of some μm, one order in magnitude larger than the London
penetration depth. The λ^(′) values obtained from the flux profile are
slightly overestimated mainly due to the influence of plastic
deformation and relaxation as mentioned above. This means that d or d/a
values calculated from Eq. (1) represent an upper limit. The d/a ratios
at higher B are below 0.02 which corresponds to absolute d values of
some nm, comparable to the coherence length. These very small reversible
displacements in comparison to the flux distance point to core pinning
interaction of dense, point-defect-like pinning centers. This is not in
contradiction to plastic deformation of the flux lattice because this
mechanism is not expected to be dominant but occurs locally and is only
visible at flux-lattice movements below λ^(′). Similar small
displacements were observed in melt-textured and thin films of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).[7, 17, 27]−[29] The magnetic-field, and temperature
dependence of λ^(′) in YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (2) behave normally as expected from
all observations in LTSC: both λ^(′) and j show opposite
behavior–decreasing j(B, T) is correlated with increasing λ^(′)(B, T)
and vice versa.

In the following we summarize briefly measurements of j, λ^(′), and d on
V₃Si made as a function of B, T and pinning center density N. Results
and discussion of these investigations which are partly published in
Refs. [9, 20], and [21] shall be used for a comparison with the HTSC
specimens. The V₃Si crystals irradiated with fast neutrons show below a
certain magnetic-field and defect concentration a satisfying agreement
with the collective-pinning theory of Larkin and Ovchinnikov.[30] The
weakly interacting pointlike pinning centers cause elastic deformation
in the flux lattice which is accompanied by low currents and a slowly
decreasing d/a with B similar to that in Fig. 12. However, a smooth
variation of d/a is not expected if the pinning mechanism changes as for
instance in the region where single-vortex pinning becomes influenced by
vortex-vortex interaction and in the transition region from elastic to
plastic deformation of the flux lattice. Above this transition area d/a
approaches higher values and decreases further with B towards B_(c2).
Such a typical behavior is shown in Fig. 13 for V₃Si (2) with a j vs B
peak. The regime of single-vortex interaction with a constant slope of
the restoring force per flux line vs displacement d(jϕ₀)/du is probably
observed below 0.5 T. The transition to the regime where plastic flow
becomes important occurs from 4.3 to 4.6 T. The peak effect of the
current at about 4.7 T is correlated with a minimum of λ^(′) and a
maximum of d/a. Below the peak all three pinning parameters are roughly
consistent with a collective-pinning interaction. The field area above
the maximum current shows large d/a values up to 0.4 but it is not in
accordance with a direct summation model or with a model based on pure
plastic deformation of the flux lattice. This follows for instance from
the exponent m of the relation j ∼ N^(m) which becomes a function of B
and decreases from m ≈ 2 to m < 0.1 if B ap

Figure 12: Reversible penetration depth λ^(′), reversible displacement d
divided by the flux distance a and the current density j vs magnetic
field B at 77 K. j is given on a linear scale between 0 and 1.4 × 10⁵
A/cm², the scale is not shown for clarity.

proaches _B__c_2. The field area at which the transition between the two
mechanisms takes place shifts with increasing defect density to zero
field. This naturally explains the decrease of the peak position to
lower fields, further, the height of the peak increases and the shape of
the peak broadens. Above a certain N the transition area has vanished
and the current density decreases continuously with magnetic field.
Figure 14 shows the corresponding measurements of the crystal V3Si (1)
after an increase of the defect density by a factor of 103. In contrast
to the crystal V3Si (2) with the lower defect density the _d/a_ values
increase with B and reach 0.5 at the broad maximum in the higher-field
area. The exponent m decreases from about 1 at low B to 0.1 at
0.9_B__c_2. This saturationlike behavior which becomes pronounced with B
is correlated with the change of the flux profile [Fig. 11(b)] both
caused by a more dominating influence of plastic deformation.

A rough comparison between V3Si (2) in the field region below the
_j_(_B_) peak and YBa2Cu3O7 (2) points to collective pinning also in the
HTSC. But relaxation measurements show that collective creep [31] with a
negative curvature in log_E_ vs log_j_ is only present in the region of
about constant S (Ref. [32]) up to B 2 T. This indicates that the low
_d/a_ values are not necessarily correlated with a collective-pinning
interaction. These differences between LTSC and HTSC become even more
pronounced if the single-crystal YBa2Cu3O7 (1) is compared with V3Si
(2). This HTSC sample has a maximum current at relatively low field. The
fishtail effect which is observed in single crystals with dominating
point-defect disorder shows the maximum current typical at _B/B_irr 0.3.
The about-constant reduced peak position is observed even in quite
differently prepared YBa2Cu3O7-8 single crystals. If one expects the
same mechanism as for the peak in V3Si (2) it requires an about-constant
defect concentration in the HTSC samples with fishtail. This assumption
is less probable and becomes even more doubtful from measurements of
crystals with quite different oxygen content, i.e., different
concentration of oxygen vacancies, which also show the maximum of the
current at the same value _B/B_irr.26

In YBa2Cu3O7 (1) (Fig. 15) the expected relation between j and _l_’ is
observed down to 0.5 T, i.e., _dj/dB_ has an opposite sign as
_d_l_’/_dB_. However, below 0.5 T this relation has changed, a
decreasing current is accompanied by a decreasing _l_’. The anomalous
correlation between _l_’ and j leads to the unusual maxima _d/a_ at 0.5
T. This pecularity becomes less pronounced with decreasing temperature.
Figure 16(a) shows that the maximum of _l_’ vanishes at about 50 K
whereas the fishtail is still observed at this temperature [Fig. 16(b)].
But the anomalous increase of _l_’ in spite of increasing j is present
at all temperatures. An influence of the self-field for this phenomenon
can be excluded because the self-field is smaller than the value at
which _d/a_ becomes a maximum.

The peak of _d/a_ in Fig. 15 is further not in agreement with a change
from elastic to plastic deformation in the flux lattice as in V3Si (2)
because _d/a_ above the peak ap

Figure 14: Reversible penetration depth _λ_’, reversible displacement d
divided by the flux distance a and the current density j vs magnetic
field B at 11.3 K. j is given on a linear scale between 0 and 8.5 × 105
Å/cm2, the scale is not shown for clarity.

Figure 13: Reversible penetration depth _λ_’, reversible displacement d
divided by the flux distance a and the current density j vs magnetic
field B at 13.5 K. j is given on a linear scale between 0 and 900 Å/cm2,
the scale is not shown for clarity.

proaches again very small values and the anomalous shape of the flux
profiles in YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (1) is present in the whole field regime (Fig.
10). Further the peak does not correlate with the maximum current as in
V₃Si (2). From these observations we conclude that the fishtail in HTSC
may have a somewhat different origin than the peak effect in LTSC. From
a comparison between YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (1) and YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (2), we suggest that
the anomalous correlation between λ^(′) and j and the corresponding d/a
peak is related to the increase of the current with B. Because this
happens at very low fields, where small vortex-vortex interaction is
expected, single-vortex pinning or easy flux shear may be involved. In
the second case the current is limited by plastic deformation between
vortices if the pinning force becomes larger than the shear force
between vortices. This may occur either at large fields approaching
B_(e2) or the melting point B_(irr) where the elastic moduli decrease or
at low fields where vortex-vortex interaction vanishes due to large
intervortex distance. A further requirement for a shear limited current
is that not all vortices are pinned with the same strength. Such a
distribution is always present for dense randomly spaced point pins
which interact collectively with vortices. For this reason the current
at low fields where vortex-vortex interaction is negligible may be
determined by the shear force and not by a single collective
interaction. With increasing field the stronger vortex-vortex
interaction increases the shear force and the current. This behavior
relates the increase of the current with B at low fields to an overcome
of the softening of the vortice lattice. The mechanism should occur for
weakly interacting defects of high density as in single crystals with
impurities or oxygen vacancies. However, a shear limited current is not
expected for strongly interacting pins as long as the system does not
become dilute, i.e., the distance between flux lines is larger than the
spacing between pins. In this field region the current is high and
related to a direct summation of the individual interaction forces. At
higher fields the system becomes dilute and j may be shear limited or in
the presence of point defects it may be related to this current. The
transition region between both is indicated by a pronounced decrease of
j with B. This behavior corresponds to the melt-textured sample
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (2) prepared with 211 precipitates of low concentration. In
the dilute case the 211 pinning centers are occupied by flux lines
already at very low B. Increasing field results in a pronounced decrease
of the current which is then determined by the background pinning of
weakly interacting point pinning centers. Such a defect structure of
strong widely spaced pins is further in accordance with increasing d/a
if B decreases towards the region of single-vortex interaction.

In single crystals of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − b) with a pronounced fishtail the
current decreases down to very low external fields. The increase of j at
very low fields [Fig. 16(b)], is related to larger scale defects. An
increase of the 211 concentration depresses the j(B) fishtail as well as
the specific correlation between j, λ^(′), and d. Figure 17 shows
measurements on a melt-textured specimen YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (3) with a
plateaulike j(B) dependence. The maximum of d/a at about 3 T corresponds
as usual in most samples to the maximum of the volume pinning force
whereas the roughly constant d/a below 1 T reminds on the possible
softening in this area. As shown in Table II, sample 3 shows the
fishtail behavior and the j(B) dependence at low fields between
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (1) and YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (2).

Figure 16: Reversible penetration depth λ^(′) (a) and current density j
(b) vs magnetic field B at different temperatures.

  YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − b)    j/77 K, 0.1 T)      j(B)
  ------------------ ---------------- -------------
  (1)                 7.5×10³ A/cm²     Fishtail
  (2)                 1.6×10⁵ A/cm²    No fishtail
  (3)                 1.9×10⁴ A/cm²      Plateau

Table 2: Comparison of data for the three different samples of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − b).

The suppression of the fishtail effect from the high currents at low B
is also demonstrated in Fig. 18 which shows _j_(_B_) of different
samples with about the same irreversibility field. The depression of the
_j_(_B_) maximum by large scale defects may result from two
possibilities. The presence of defects as for instance 211 precipitates
may decrease the density of point pinning centers by enhanced diffusion
and segregation. In this case the fishtail vanishes because the
necessary defect structure is absent. The second possibility is related
to the larger disorder of the flux lattice in the low-field region
caused by the softening. The larger scale defects may already produce a
disorder in the lattice which prevents a further softening or melting as
from the high-density point-defect structure in single crystals.

A final remark is addressed to the Labusch parameter a which is the
slope of the force displacement curve in the linear elastic regime. A
comparison of the values in Fig. 19 between the three YBa2Cu3O7-6
samples at 77 K suffers from different irreversibility fields and
different currents. The a values of sample 2 are in the low-field region
about one order in magnitude higher than that one of sample 3 with
similar _B_irr but by a factor of 3 to 5 lower j. At fields above 3 T
where the currents become about equal also a of both samples approaches
the same values. The field and temperature dependence of a and of
_B_*_j_ is very similar in sample 1, which points to the same
interaction mechanism in the entire range of field and temperature.
Whereas in samples 2 and 3, this coincidence is not observed. The
different dependences of a and _B_*_j_ on B especially pronounced in
sample 2 may be related to different pinning centers dominating at low
and high fields, respectively.

## IV Summary

An ac technique is used to measure flux profiles in various low-_T__c_
superconductors and single crystalline and melt-textured YBa2Cu3O7-6 for
the geometry field parallel to the c axis of the crystals. The current
density j and the reversible displacement _l_’ which describes the
elastic limit of the interaction between vortices and pinning structure
were determined from the flux profile.

The influence of thermally activated flux movement on these parameters
is discussed. From the measured induced voltage at the time where the
slope of the applied ac field becomes zero, the relaxation rate is
calculated. These values are one order of magnitude smaller than
relaxation rates obtained from a transient decay of an induced current
from VSM measurements. This difference demonstrates that the thermally
activated flux motion in an ac experiment is not in equilibrium with the
electric field at the sample surface. The measured time constant which
describes the rearrangement of flux towards this equilibrium state is
much larger than the period of the ac field. This observation means that
the equilibrium voltage-current characteristics _E_(_j_) do not
determine the influence of relaxation on ac measurements made
sufficiently below the irreversibility field.

The induced voltage from thermally activated flux motion was observed to
be quite different between a sinusoidal and a triangular applied ac
field. The influence of relaxation on the determination of _l_’ was
obtained from a comparison between results from both measurements. This
influence caused an error of _l_’ below 20

A general comparison of _l_’ between YBa2Cu3O7-6 and LTSC at similar
current densities and reduced temperatures shows much smaller _l_’
values in the HTSC. Consequently the ratio reversible displacement
divided by the mean flux distance, _d_/_a_, approaches values down to
0.005 whereas in LTSC _d_/_a_ ≈ 0.1 represents the lower

Figure 19: Labusch parameter _α_ calculated from the relation
_B_′(_μ__θ_

limit. This much smaller elastic regime of reversible flux motion
results from the dominating interaction with pointlike pinning centers
in HTSC. Only YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples with 211 precipitates show larger
d / a values at low magnetic fields. The current in samples without such
larger scale pinning centers is determined by point defects as in single
crystals with a fishtail effect. This maximum current at intermediate
magnetic fields is correlated with an anomalous behavior of λ^(′) at
fields below the maximum. In all LTSC samples with and without a j (B)
peak effect and in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) without a fishtail a decreasing
current is accompanied by increasing λ^(′) values as expected from
vortex-vortex interaction. But in the fishtail sample below the maximum
current, both the reversible displacement and the current decrease with
decreasing field. This correlation indicates a softening of the vortex
lattice and a shear limited current.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors would like to thank A. Will for technical assistance. This
work was partly supported by the Bundesministerium fur Forschung und
Technolgie under Grant No. 13N6177.

## References

* [1] E. J. Kramer, J. Appl. Phys. **44**, 1360 (1973). * [2] S. J.
Mullock and J. E. Evetts, J. Appl. Phys. **57**, 2588 (1985). * [3] D.
Dew-Hughes, Philos. Mag. B **58**, 459 (1987). * [4] H. Kupfer and T.
Matsushita, J. Appl. Phys. **63**, 5060 (1988). * [5] A. M. Campbell, J.
Phys. C **2**, 1492 (1969). * [6] A. M. Campbell, J. Phys. C **2**, 3186
(1971). * [7] R. Doyle A. M. Campbell, and R. E. Somekh, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **71**, 4241 (1993). * [8] H. Kupfer and A. A. Manuel, Phys.
Status Solidi A **54**, 153 (1979). * [9] A. M. Campbell _et al._,
_Proceedings of the International Symposium on Flux Pinning and
Electromagnetic Properties of Superconductivity, Fukuoka, Japan, 1985_,
edited by T. Matsushita, K. Yamafuji, and F. Irie (Matsukama, Fukuoka,
Japan, 1985), p. 54. * [10] T. Matsushita and H. Kupfer, J. Appl. Phys.
**63**, 5048 (1988). * [11] R. W. Rollins _et al._, J. Appl. Phys.
**45**, 5932 (1974). * [12] H. R. Kerchner, J. Low Temp. Phys. **34**,
33 (1978). * [13] P. W. Anderson and Y. B. Kim, Rev. Mod. Phys. **36**,
39 (1964). * [14] A. Gurevich _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 12 090
(1991). * [15] A. Gurevich and H. Kupfer, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 6477
(1993). * [16] S. N. Gordeev _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 15 420
(1994). * [17] R. Kresse _et al._, _Proceedings of the First European
Conference on Applied Superconductivity_, Applied Superconductivity,
edited by H. C. Freyhardt (DGM Informationsgesellschaft, Oberosel,
1993), Vol. 1, p. 337. * [18] T. Matsushita _et al._, Jpn. J. Appl.
Phys. **28**, 356 (1989). * [19] T. Matsushita _et al._, Cryogenics
**33**, 347 (1993). * [20] R. Meier-Hirmer _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**31**, 183 (1985). * [21] H. Kupfer _et al._, Adv. Cryogenic Eng.
Mater. **34**, 725 (1988). * [22] R. Wordenweber, Phys. Rev. B **46**,
3076 (1992). * [23] K. Kimura _et al._ (unpublished). * [24] A. A.
Zhukov _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 12 704 (1995). * [25] I. Maksimov
_et al._ (unpublished). * [26] A. A. Zhukov _et al._, Physica C
**235-240**, 2837 (1994). * [27] C. Keller _et al._, Cryogenics **30**,
401 (1990). * [28] E. J. Tomlinsen _et al._, Cryogenics **33**, 28
(1993). * [29] R. A. Doyle _et al._, _Proceedings of the First European
Conference on Applied Superconductivity_, Applied Superconductivity
(Ref. 17), p. 689. * [30] A. I. Larkin and Yu. N. Ovchinnikov, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **34**, 409 (1979). * [31] G. Blatter _et al._, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **66**, 1125 (1994). * [32] H. Kupfer _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 7016 (1994).
