# Hole doping effect on superconductivity in Ce(Co_(1 − x)Ru_(x))In₅

M. N. Ou,^(1, 2, *) K. Gofryk,¹ R. E. Baumbach,¹ S. S. Stoyko,³ J. D.
Thompson,¹ J. M. Lawrence,¹ E. D. Bauer,¹ F. Ronning,¹ A. Mar,³ and Y.
Y. Chen^(2, 1)

¹Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA

²Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, Taiwan

³Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada T6G
2G2

Received 19 July 2013; revised manuscript received 17 October 2013;
published 19 November 2013

###### Abstract

CeCoIn₅, which has a superconducting transition temperature of 2.3 K,
provides an excellent opportunity to study the interplay of
superconductivity and magnetism near an antiferromagnetic quantum
critical point. Previous studies have explored the effects of electron
doping, magnetic field, and positive pressure on this system. To
determine the effect of hole doping, we have grown single crystals of
Ce(Co_(1 − x)Ru_(x))In₅ in indium flux. The crystal structure of these
Ru-doped samples was identified by powder XRD as the HoCoGa₅-type. We
find that the coherence temperature T^(*) and the superconducting
transition temperature T_(c) decrease monotonically with increasing Ru
content. Unlike the case of hole doping in CeCo(In_(5 − x)Cd_(x)) alloys
in which antiferromagnetism starts to emerge at x = 0.025, we find no
magnetic transition at our maximal nominal doping of $x_{\rm nom}=0.5$,
where T_(c) is suppressed to 1.5 K. We discuss possible reasons for this
difference between these two cases of hole doping.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.88.195134 PACS number(s): 71.27.+a, 74.70.Tx,
72.15.Qm, 75.30.Mb + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **88**,
195134 (2013)

## 1 Introduction

An important issue in the study of strongly correlated electron systems
(SCES) is the competition between Fermi liquid, antiferromagnetic (AFM),
and unconventional superconducting (SC) ground states. Heavy fermion
systems are ideal compounds for investigating how these phases emerge
near an AFM quantum critical point (QCP).[1] Various external parameters
such as composition (x), pressure (P), and magnetic field (H) are used
to tune among these ground states. Previous work[2] shows that the QCP
can be attained by alloying in Ce(Cu_(6 − x)Au_(x)), while studies[3] of
CeIn₃ and CePd₂Si₂ under application of pressure suggest that a narrow
superconducting dome may emerge near the AFM QCP.

The compounds CeMIn₅ (M = Rh, Ir, Co) exhibit low-temperature behavior
that appears to be strongly influenced by proximity to a quantum
critical point in T-x-P-H phase space and hence provide a convenient
stage for the study of quantum criticality (QC) near an AFM QCP. These
compounds form in the tetragonal HoCoGa₅ (P4/mmm) structure where a MIn₂
buffer layer is sandwiched between two active CeIn₃ layers.[4] The
ground state of these 1-1-5 compounds can be tuned by isoelectronic
doping[5, 6] between SC states in CeCoIn₅ (T_(c) = 2.3 K) and CeIrIn₅
(T_(c) = 0.4 K) and an AFM state in CeRhIn₅ (T_(N) ∼ 4 K). Experimental
results suggest that CeCoIn₅(Co115) is located very close to an AFM
QCP.[7, 8] A number of studies of doping onto the Ce and In sites in
Co115 have been performed in order to probe QC near an AFM QCP.[9, 10,
11] The correlated electron effects are only weakly affected by Yb
substitution onto the Ce site, while they are strongly affected by other
rare earths.[14, 15] Recent results for Co115 show that electron doping
by substitution of Pt onto the Co site or Sn onto the In site drives the
system away from the QCP into a less-enhanced Fermi liquid state while
hole doping with Cd or Hg onto the In site drives the system through the
QCP into an AFM state. Moreover, the effects of hole doping through
substitution of Hg in this compound can be reversed by electron doping
through additional substitution of Pt or Sn.[16, 17]

## 2 Experiment

In this paper, we report investigations of the effect of hole doping by
substitution of ruthenium onto the Co site. Five batches of
Ce(Co_(1 − x)Ru_(x))In₅ with nominal (starting) doping concentrations of
$x_{\rm nom}=0.1$, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5 were synthesized by means of
the self-flux method in an indium solvent.[7, 18, 19] The crystals grew
in the tetragonal HoCoGa₅ structure, forming flat sheets with dimensions
of order of 1 mm in width and length and 100 μm in thickness. The x-ray
diffraction (XRD) rocking scan revealed that the [001] direction was
perpendicular to the plane of each individual plate. The HoCoGa₅
structure was found to exist only for concentrations less than a maximum
nominal concentration $x_{\rm nom}$= 0.5; for larger concentrations, the
resulting crystals were found to crystallize in the Ce₂CoIn₅ structure
with major inclusions of RuIn₃. Refinement of both single crystal and
polycrystalline XRD profiles (where the polycrystal samples were formed
by powdering selected crystals) showed that the lattice volume expanded
slightly as the doping level increased up to $x_{\rm nom}=0.3$, and then
was constant in the range $0.3<x_{\rm nom}<0.5$ [see Fig. 1(a)]. The
maximum increase of lattice constants for both the a and c axes is of
order 0.3

## III Results and Discussion

The results for the electrical resistivity are shown in Fig. 2 on a
log-log scale; the curves have been shifted vertically to clarify the
change in the low-temperature power-law behavior. All the curves show
behavior typical of heavy Fermion materials. At high temperatures, dρ/dT
is negative, indicative of Kondo behavior. A pronounced maximum of the
resistivity occurs at a temperature T^(*), which we interpret as the
coherence temperature. In contrast to electron doping by Pt or Sn
substitution, where T^(*) increases with alloying,[16] for hole doping
with Ru the coherence temperature decreases as the concentration
increases, from 41 K at $x_{\rm{non}}=0$ to 25 K at $x_{\rm{non}}=0.5$.
This trend is exhibited in Fig. 4(a). The decrease

Figure 1: (Color online) XRD analysis of a series of
Ce(Co_(1 − x),Ru_(x))In₅ alloys with nominal concentration in the range
x${}_{\rm{non}}=0.1$ to 0.5. Closed symbols correspond to single crystal
data; open symbols to powder diffraction. (a) The lattice constants and
(b) the average Ru concentration deduced from refinement of single
crystal profiles.

Figure 3: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the electronic
specific heat of Ce(Co_(1 − x),Ru_(x))In₅. The lattice contribution,
determined from the specific heat of LaCoIn₅, has been subtracted from
these results. The extrapolations of the normal state electronic
specific heat for nominal concentrations $x_{\rm{non}}=0$ and 0.5 are
drawn in the figure to emphasize the increase of the electron specific
heat coefficient with increasing x. (Inset) A comparison of the specific
heat coefficient C/T vs T for a Ru-doped sample with $x_{\rm{non}}=0.5$
and a Cd-doped sample with a similar T_(c); the latter shows magnetic
order, the former does not [data for CeCo(In_(5 − x)Cd_(x)) are from
Ref. [17]].

Figure 2: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the resistivity
of Ce(Co_(1 − x)Ru_(x))In₅ on a ln T scale. The residual resistivity ρ₀
(determined by fitting to the power law ρ = ρ₀ + AT^(*)) has been
subtracted for all samples shown in the main panel. (Inset) The
low-temperature resistivity on a linear scale, showing the rapid drop of
the resistivity to zero at the superconducting transition.

of T^(*) as x increases, which is also observed for Cd substitution,
suggests that the electron ground state approaches a QCP for a
transition to antiferromagnetism with increasing hole doping, while
electron doping pushes the system away from quantum criticality towards
a paramagnetic state.[5, 16, 17, 20] At lower temperatures, the behavior
of the resistivity evolves from a linear to a sublinear temperature
dependence as the Ru concentration increases. We do not know the origin
of this behavior, but find it interesting that both electron doping (Sn
or Pt) and hole doping (Cd and Ru) cause the resistivity to become
sublinear although the dopants have the opposite effect on the magnetic
criticality.

As seen in the inset of Fig. 2, at sufficiently low temperature the
resistivity of these alloys drops rapidly to zero. We assign the
temperature at the midpoint between the normal and zero-resistivity
states as the superconducting transition temperature T_(c-mid); this
equals 2.3 and 1.72 K for x_(norm) = 0 and 0.5, respectively. We note
that both T^(*) and T_(c) follow the same trend in that they are
suppressed monotonically with Ru alloying [see Figs. 4(a) and 4(b)].
[The error bars in Fig. 4(b) are determined from the temperatures where
the resistivity falls to 90

Due to an uncertainty in the small masses of our samples, we have
normalized the specific heat of all our alloys to the specific heat of
undoped Co115 at 20 K. The results for the low-temperature electronic
specific heat for all our Ce(Co_(1 − x)Ru_(x))In₅ samples are shown in
Fig. 3 as C/T versus T. A lattice contribution (C_(L)) determined from
that of LaCoIn₅ has been subtracted from this data. The decrease of the
SC transition temperature (T_(c)) with increasing Ru concentration is
similar to that seen for T_(c-mid) in the resistivity ρ(T). [The error
bars in Fig. 4(b) are determined by linear interpolation of the data
from the peak in the specific heat to the normal state linear behavior.]
The increase of the linear coefficient as x_(norm) increases is also
consistent with the decrease in T^(*) as the system approaches an AFM
QCP. Unlike the case of Cd doping, however, there is no obvious extra
peak arising from an AFM transition at any concentration we have studied
(see Fig. 3 inset).

Gofryk _et al.[16]_ have pointed out that all dopants of CeCoIn₅ have
both a pair breaking effect and an electronic tuning effect. Electron
doping with Sn or Pt increases the coherence temperature T^(*),
decreases the linear coefficient of specific heat, and drives the system
away from an AFM QCP toward a paramagnetic state, while hole doping with
Cd and Hg has the reverse effect, pushing the system towards an AFM
state. These authors also point out that the rate of suppression of the
SC T_(c) is similar for electron doping, whether via Sn onto the In
sites or via Pt onto the Co buffer layer (dT_(c)/dx = −11.3 K/x_(Pt),
−13.2 K/x_(Sn)). While the initial suppression of T_(c) for Cd doping is
similar [d T_(c)/dx = −12.8 K/x_(Cd), see Fig. 4(c)], if the decrease of
T_(c) is compared to the change in the scattering rate on alloying, it
is found that the pair breaking effect is weaker for the hole dopants Cd
and Hg[16] than for the electron dopants.

In the absence of a precise determination of the actual alloy
concentrations for Ru doping, it is difficult to make comparisons with
these other dopants. However, the most significant comparison between Ru
and Cd doping is that no AFM transition is observed for the former
dopant for values of T_(c) comparable to those for Cd doping where the
co-existence of an AFM transition is clear (see Fig. 3 inset). This
allows us to speculate on two possible scenarios.

In the first case, we assume that the value of T^(*) allows us to
determine the actual doping concentration x_(act) for Ru. This is based
on the observation that for Sn, Pt, and Cd doping T^(*) scales linearly
with the electron count [see Fig. 4(a)] independent of the dopant
atom.[16] In this case, x_(act) has the same value as for
CeCo(In_(5 − x)Cd_(x)) at the same value of T^(*), and one finds that
x_(act) = x_(norm)/4, similar to the relation deduced from refinement of
single crystal XRD profiles. This results in a very weak suppression for
superconductivity dT_(c)/dx_(Ru) = −7 K/x_(Ru), which is roughly half
that found for electron or La dopants.[16, 21] As can be seen in Fig.
4(c), the suppression of T_(c) under this hypothesis is clearly weaker
than for Cd-doped Co115; indeed, the critical concentration x_(c) for
suppression of superconductivity is comparable to that seen for Pt or Sn
doping, where x_(c) ∼ 0.2. However, the absence of long-range order seen
in Fig. 4(c) is stunning in comparison to the Cd doped samples. Under
the given assumption, we would have anticipated a magnetic ordering
temperature for our sample with the largest Ru doping to be greater than
4 K, which is clearly not observed. Thus, in this scenario, there is a
clear difference in the ability to establish long-range magnetic order
with Ru doping in comparison to Cd (or Hg) doping; otherwise said, the
critical concentration for the AF QCP is more than a factor of two
larger for Ru doping than for Cd doping.

Figure 4: (Color online) The maximum temperature T^(*) of the
resistivity of Ce(Co_(1 − x)Ru_(x))In₅ as a function of alloy
concentration compared to the values observed for Sn, Pt, and Cd
dopants. (b) The superconducting transition temperatures T_(c) as
estimated by the midpoint T_(c-mid) of the resistive transition and from
an equal area construction on the specific heat. (c) Comparison of the
effects of Ru and Cd doping on the phase diagram. The dashed and dotted
lines stand for the AFM Néel temperature (T_(N)) and the SC transition
temperature (T_(c)) for Cd dopants,[17] respectively, while the solid
circles represent T_(c) for Ru dopants. In these plots, we have divided
the nominal concentration of Ru by a factor of 4, which corresponds to
the assumption that the actual Ru concentration is determined by the
behavior of T^(*).

In the second scenario, we assume that the ability to generate long
range magnetic order is determined solely by the nominal electron count.
In this case, $x_{\rm act}$ has the same value as for
CeCo(In_(5 − x)Cd_(x)) at the same value of T_(N). This scenario is
supported by the fact that when Sn- and Pt-doped samples are co-doped
with Hg, they have the same Neel temperature when the electron count is
identical.[16] Under this assumption, the actual Ru doping at
$x_{\rm non}=0.5$ must be less than $x_{\rm act}=0.03$ where
antiferromagnetism first appears for Cd doping so that the actual
concentration must be at least fifteen times smaller than the nominal
value, consistent with the average concentration deduced from the EDX.
For this hypothesis, the coherence temperature T^(*) no longer simply
scales with the electron count, and T_(c) is smaller than for Cd doping
at the same concentration so that the pair breaking strength for Ru
dopants is stronger than for Cd (or Hg) dopants.

In either case, we come to the conclusion that Ru and Cd dopants produce
significant differences in the electronic tuning and/or the
superconducting pair breaking response. It is not clear which scenario
represents reality, but we can say with certainty that a difference
exists between Ru and Cd doping that was not observed in the case of Sn
and Pt doping. Since there is no change in lattice constant when Co115
is doped with Cd or Sn, while the lattice initially expands on Ru
doping, it is possible that the additional negative chemical pressure
effect induced by Ru doping influences this difference. This
explanation, however, appears to be contradicted by the saturation of
the lattice constants for $x_{\rm non}>0.3$. A second possibility is
that Ru doping affects the electronic structure throughout the bulk,
while Cd doping affects only the nearby Ce atoms. Such a local effect,
which has been proposed for Cd doping based on NMR measurements,[22]
appears to contradict the fact that T^(*) and T_(c) for Cd doped samples
can be reversibly tuned by application of pressure[17] or by co-doping
with Pt or Sn.[16] Finally, it should be mentioned that hole doping via
alloying Yb onto the Ce site leads to no change in the Ce valence or
coherence temperature T^(*) and a linear decrease in T_(c) towards T = 0
at YbCoIn₅ suggesting that alloying with Yb leads merely to simple
dilution effects.[14, 23] This serves as a warning that the phase
diagram of Fig. 4 may not be a comparable function of electron count as
is seen for other dopants.

## IV Summary

In summary, we have synthesized Ce(Co_(1 − x)Ru_(x))In₅ crystals using
In flux growth. Doping CeCoIn₅ with Ru causes a decrease of the
coherence temperature T^(*), the onset of a sub-linear temperature
dependence in the resistivity, and the suppression of the SC T_(c).
These results imply that hole doping via Ru alloying moves the system
towards an AFM ground state. Finally, the absence of AFM at our highest
Ru concentration gives a hint of different physics for Ru doping in
CeCoIn₅ than for Cd or Hg doping.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported in part by project no. NSC
100-2112-M-001-019-MY3 of the National Science Council, Taiwan. Work at
Los Alamos National Laboratory was performed under the auspices of the
U.S. DOE, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials
Sciences and Engineering. Work at the University of Alberta was
supported by the Natural Sciences and Research Council of Canada.

## References

* [1] C. M. Varma, Z. Nussinov, and W. v. Saarloos, Phys. Rep. **361**,
267 (2002). * [2] H. v. Lohneysen, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **8**, 9689
(1996). * [3] N. D. Mathur, F. M. Grosche, S. R. Julian, I. R. Walker,
D. M. Freye, R. K. W. Haselwimmer, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London)
**394**, 39 (1998). * [4] R. T. Macaluso, J. L. Sarrao, P. G. Pagliuso,
N. O. Moreno, R. G. Goodrich, D. A. Browne, F. R. Fronczek, and J. Y.
Chan, J. Solid State Chem. **166**, 245 (2002). * [5] P. G. Pagliuso, R.
Movshovich, A. D. Bianchi, M. Nicklas, N. O. Moreno, J. D. Thompson, M.
F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, and Z. Fisk, Physica B **312-313**, 129
(2002). * [6] V. S. Zapf, E. J. Freeman, E. D. Bauer, J. Petricka, C.
Sirvent, N. A. Frederick, R. P. Dickey, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 014506 (2001). * [7] C. Petrovic, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley,
R. Movshovich, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, and P. Monthoux,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L337 (2001). * [8] G. Sparn, R. Borth,
E. Lengyel, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, F. Steglich, and J. D.
Thompson, Physica B **312-313**, 138 (2002). * [9] S. Nakatsuji, D.
Pines, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 016401 (2004). * [10] M. A.
Tanatar, J. Paglione, S. Nakatsuji, D. G. Hawthorn, E. Boaknin, R. W.
Hill, F. Ronning, M. Sutherland, L. Taillefer, C. Petrovic, P. C.
Canfield, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 067002 (2005). * [11] S.
K. Goh, J. Paglione, M. Sutherland, E. C. T. OFarrell, C. Bergemann, T.
A. Sayles, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 056402 (2008). *
[12] E. D. Bauer, Yi-feng Yang, C. Capan, R. R. Urbano, C. F. Miclea, H.
Sakai, F. Ronning, M. J. Graf, A. V. Balatsky, R. Movshovich, A. D.
Bianchi, A. P. Reyes, P. L. Kuhns, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk, Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **108**, 6857 (2011). * [13] J. Panarin, S.
Raymond, G. Lapertot, J. Flouquet, and J.-M. Mignot, Phys. Rev. B
**84**, 052505 (2011). * [14] L. Shu, R. E. Baumbach, M. Janoschek, E.
Gonzales, K. Huang, T. A. Sayles, J. Paglione, J. O’Brien, J. J. Hamlin,
D. A. Zocco, P.-C. Ho, C. A. McElroy, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**106**, 156403 (2011). * [15] J. Paglione, T. A. Sayles, P. C. Ho, J.
R. Jeffries, and M. B. Maple, Nat. Phys. **3**, 703 (2007). * [16] K.
Gofryk, F. Ronning, J. X. Zhu, M. N. Ou, P. H. Tobash, S. S. Stoyko, X.
Lu, A. Mar, T. Park, E. D. Bauer, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **109**, 186402 (2012).

* (17) L. D. Pham, T. Park, S. Maquilon, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 056404 (2006). * (18) E. D. Bauer, F. Ronning,
C. Capan, M. J. Graf, D. Vandervelde, H. Q. Yuan, M. B. Salamon, D. J.
Mixson, N. O. Moreno, S. R. Brown, J. D. Thompson, R. Movshovich, M. F.
Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, P. G. Pagliuso, and S. M. Kauzlarich, Phys. Rev.
B **73**, 245109 (2006). * (19) E. D. Bauer, N. O. Moreno, D. J. Mixson,
J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, M. F. Hundley, R. Movshovich, and P. G.
Pagliuso, Physica B **359-361**, 35 (2005). * (20) C. H. Booth, E. D.
Bauer, A. D. Bianchi, F. Ronning, J. D. Thompson, J. L. Sarrao, J. Y.
Cho, J. Y. Chan, C. Capan, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 144519
(2009). * (21) C. Petrovic, S. L. Bud’ko, V. G. Kogan, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 054534 (2002). * (22) R. R. Urbano, B.-L.
Young, N. J. Curro, J. D. Thompson, L. D. Pham, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **99**, 146402 (2007). * (23) C. H. Booth, T. Durakiewicz, C.
Capan, D. Hurt, A. D. Bianchi, J. J. Joyce, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 235117 (2011).
