Li0.84Fe0.16)OHFe0.98Se superconductor: Ion-exchange synthesis of large
single-crystal and highly two-dimensional electron properties

Xiaoli Dong, Kai Jin, Dongna Yuan, Huaxue Zhou, Ji Jie Yuan, Yulong
Huang, Wei Hua, Junliang Sun, Ping Zheng, Wei Hu, Yiyuan Mao, Mingwei
Ma, Guangming Zhang, Fang Zhou, Zhongxian Zhao

Corresponding author: dong@iphy.ac.cn Department address: College of
Physics, Chongqing University, Chongqing 401331, China. Corresponding
author: fzhou@iphy.ac.cn Corresponding author: fzhczhao@iphy.ac.cn
Corresponding author: zhxzhao@iphy.ac.cn Beijing National Laboratory for
Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of
Science, Beijing 100190, China

¹Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Science, Beijing 100190, China

²Beijing National Laboratory for Molecular Sciences, College of
Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, Beijing 100871,
China

³State Key Laboratory of Low-Dimensional Quantum Physics and Department
of Physics, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China

⁴Corresponding author: fzhou@iphy.ac.cn Corresponding author:
zhxzhao@iphy.ac.cn

###### Abstract

A large and high-quality single crystal (Li0.84Fe0.16)OHFe0.98Se, the
optimal superconductor of a reported (Li1.3Fe0.0)OHFe1.98Se system, has
been successfully synthesized via a hydrothermal ion-exchange technique.
The superconducting transition temperature (T_(c)) of 42 K is determined
by magnetic susceptibility and electric resistivity measurements, and
the zero-temperature upper critical magnetic fields are evaluated as 79
and 313 T for the field along the c axis and the ab plane, respectively.
The ratio of out-of-plane to in-plane electric resistivity ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab)
is found to increase with decreasing temperature and to reach a high
value of 2500 at 50 K, with an evident kink occurring at a
characteristic temperature T^(*) = 120 K. The negative in-plane Hall
coefficient indicates that electron carriers dominate in the charge
transport, and the hole contribution is significantly reduced as the
temperature is lowered to approach T^(*). From T^(*) down to T_(c) we
observe the linear temperature dependencies of the in-plane electric
resistivity and the magnetic susceptibility for the FeSe layers. Our
findings thus reveal that the normal state of (Li0.84Fe0.16)OHFe0.98Se
becomes highly two dimensional and anomalous prior to the
superconducting transition, providing an insight into the mechanism of
high-T_(c) superconductivity.

doi:10.1103/PhysRevB.92.064515 10.1103/PhysRevB.92.064515 10.

synthesized binary FeSe [10] as starting materials have only produced
powder samples of FeSe11111 [8, 9, 10, 11]. Our recipe for preparing the
large and high quality crystals is that large crystals of K0.8Fe1.6Se2
(nominal 245 phase, KFS245 for short) are specially grown and used as a
kind of _matrix_ for a hydrothermal ionic exchange reaction. The KFS245
structure consists of an alternative stacking with layers of K ions and
FeSe tetrahedra similar to our target compound, so as to be the best
precursor with an ideal matrix structure. Moreover, the K ions in KFS245
are _completely_ released into solution after the hydrothermal reaction
process. Simultaneously, (Li/Fe)OH layers constructed by ions from the
solution are squashed into the matrix, linking the adjacent edge-sharing
FeSe tetrahedra via a weak hydrogen bonding. The separation between the
neighboring FeSe-tetrahedron layers is consequently enlarged by ∼32

As-derived high-quality FeSe11111 single crystals are of a size over 10
mm in length and about 0.4 mm in thickness. The cartoon in Fig. 1(a)
illustrates such an ionic exchange process. The experimental details of
crystal synthesis are described in Supplemental Material [12]. The
insets of Figs. 1(b) and 1(c) are the photographs of two typical crystal
pieces for KFS245 precursor and its subsequently derived FeSe11111,
respectively. Interestingly, the FeSe1111 crystal roughly inherits the
original shape of its precursor. The room temperature x-ray diffraction
(XRD) patterns of (00_l_) type on the two crystal pieces demonstrate
their crystal orientations along (001) planes, with l = 2n (_n_ =
integer) for KFS245 [Fig. 1(b)] and without the systematic extinction
for FeSe11111 [Fig. 1(c)]. Their corresponding powder XRD patterns are
given in Figs. S1a and S1b of the Supplemental Material [12], showing no
detectable impurity phases within experimental resolution. All the
reflections in each powder pattern can be well indexed on known
tetragonal structures with the space group of 14/m [7] for KFS245 and
P4/mmm [8, 9, 10] for FeSe11111. The least-squares refined unit cell
dimensions are a = 8.7248(6) A and c = 14.1339(12) A for KFS245, and a =
3.7827(4) A and c = 9.3184(7) A for FeSe11111. Single crystal XRD data
of FeSe11111 are also collected at 180 K and the structure refinement is
performed in light of the reported structure model [8,10]. The resulting
crystallographic data are listed in Table S1 of the Supplemental
Material [12]. Finally the chemical formula of our single crystal is
expressed as (Li0.84Fe0.16)OHFe0.98Se based on the structural
refinement. While the $\sqrt{5}\times\sqrt{5}$ ordered vacant Fe sites
in the FeSe layers of K0.8Fe1.6Se2 are of ∼20

Figure 2(a) displays the magnetic susceptibility data for the KFS245
precursor, exhibiting an AFM phase transition at

Figure 1: (Color online) Illustration of hydrothermal ion-exchange
process. (a) A schematic illustration of the hydrothermal ionic exchange
reaction with the starting materials of big matrix crystals of
K0.8Fe1.8Se2, LiOHH2O, Fe, and CHiN2Se. The spacing between the adjacent
FeSe layers of thus synthesized (Li0.84Fe0.16)OHFe0.98Se crystal with
the space group P4/_nmmm_ is consequently enlarged by ∼32

Figure 2: (Color online) Magnetic properties of K0.8Fe1.6Se2 and
(Li0.84Fe0.16)OHFe0.98Se crystals. (a) The temperature dependence of the
static magnetic susceptibility of K0.8Fe1.6Se2 exhibits an
antiferromagnetic transition at 538 K. (b) The magnetic susceptibilities
corrected for demagnetization factor under zero-field cooling (ZFC) and
field cooling (FC, 1 Oe along the c axis) for (Li0.84Fe0.16)OHFe0.98Se
show that a sharp diamagnetic transition occurs at 42 K. The ZFC curve
shows a 100

538 K consistent with the previous reports [7]. Its insulating behavior
is checked up by electric resistivity measurement (Supplemental Material
Fig. S2 [12]). By contrast, the ion-exchange synthesized FeSe11111
crystal exhibits bulk superconductivity, as evidenced by its magnetic
susceptibilities drop at 42 K [Fig. 2(b)], with a narrow temperature
range ΔT ∼ 1 K between 10

Displayed in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) are the temperature dependencies of the
in-plane electric resistivity ρ_(ab)(T) under the magnetic fields along
the c axis (H//c) and the ab plane (H//ab), respectively. The onset
superconducting transition temperature remains almost the same under
fields up to 9 T, no matter H//c or H//ab. However, the zero resistance
state shifts to lower temperatures with increasing magnetic field, but
more slowly in H//ab than in H//c, implying the formation of complex
vortex states. Such a behavior resembles the features observed in
copper-oxide high temperature superconductors [13, 14]. By taking the
temperature at the midpoint of the electric resistivity drop as that of
the upper critical field H_(c2) [Fig. 3(c)], the zero-temperature upper
critical magnetic fields can be estimated as 79 T for field along the c
axis and 313 T for field along the ab plane from the
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) formula [15] [inset of Fig. 3(c)]. So
the superconducting state of the FeSe11111 sample is anisotropic.

In the normal state, the in-plane electric resistivity ρ_(ab) displays a
metallic behavior in the whole measuring temperature range [Fig. 4(a)].
As the temperature is lowered to the characteristic temperature
T^(*) = 120 K, the slope of the resistivity curve undergoes a prominent
reduction. Subsequently, there emerges the linear temperature dependence
of ρ_(ab) from 80 K down to T_(c) [inset of Fig. 4(a)]. Due to the large
size of our sample, the out-of-plane electric resistivity of FeSe11111
single crystal is readily measured. The resulting ρ_(c) shows a roughly
similar behavior to ρ_(ab). However, their ratio ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab), as a
measure of the carrier anisotropy, increases with decreasing temperature
and reaches to a large value of 2500 at 50 K [Fig. 4(a)]. Interestingly,
a kink in the ratio also appears at the characteristic temperature
T^(*), due to the significant slope change in ρ_(ab) compared to ρ_(c)
(Supplemental Material Fig. S3 [12]). It is clear that, prior to the
superconducting transition, the normal state electronic properties of
the FeSe11111 crystal turns out to be highly two dimensional.

Actually, other normal state properties are also readily measured on our
large FeSe11111 crystal. The in-plane Hall voltage has been obtained
under the magnetic fields along the c axis by sweeping the field up to 9
T at fixed temperatures. The extracted Hall resistivity (ρ_(xy)) is
proportional to the magnetic field at all measuring temperatures
(Supplemental Material Fig. S4 [12]), so the Hall coefficient
R_(H) = ρ_(xy)/H is field independent. As shown in Fig. 4(b), R_(H) is
negative in the whole measuring temperature, but displays a dip feature
around the characteristic temperature T^(*) = 120 K. We propose to use a
compensated metal picture of multiple electron and hole bands to explain
our observation. With the equal total electron and hole concentrations
(n_(h) = n_(e)), the Hall coefficient satisfies
R_(H) = (μ_(h) − μ_(e))/[(μ_(h) + μ_(e))n_(e)e], where μ_(e)(μ_(h))
stands for the mobility of electron (hole) charge carriers. The negative
Hall coefficient indicates that the contribution of electrons dominates
the charge transport of the sample (μ_(e) > μ_(h)). Above the
characteristic temperature T^(*), the mobility of holes μ_(h) is reduced
as the temperature is getting lower, leading to a decreasing Hall
coefficient. Below T^(*), the electron carriers govern the charge
transport (μ_(e) ≫ μ_(h)). The Hall coefficient can thus be simplified
as R_(H) ∼ −1/(n_(e)e), and its upturn with the further lowering
temperature can be attributed to an enhanced carrier density.

The static magnetic susceptibility χ = M/H is carefully measured and
analyzed under different magnetic fields H along the c axis in the
region with linear field dependencies of magnetization M (Supplemental
Material Fig. S5 [12]). There exist two different contributions to the
magnetic susceptibility: one part arises from the intercalated (Li/Fe)OH
layers and

Figure 3: (Color online) The in-plane electric resistivity under
different magnetic fields and the upper critical magnetic fields. (a)
The in-plane electric resistivity of (Li_(0.84)Fe_(0.16))OHFe_(0.98)Se
displays the superconducting transitions under different applied
magnetic fields along the c axis. (b) The in-plane electric resistivity
under different applied magnetic fields along the ab plane. Up to 9 T,
the onset superconducting transition temperature remains almost
unchanged in both (a) and (b), but the temperature of zero resistance
state shifts quickly from 40 K to lower temperatures with increasing
field. (c) The anisotropic upper critical magnetic field H_(c2) as
functions of temperature deduced from (a) and (b), from which the
zero-temperature upper critical fields can be extrapolated according to
the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) formula (the inset).

another part from the FeSe layers. The total susceptibility slightly
depends on the magnitude of the applied field [Fig. 4(c)]. In the higher
temperature range, a modified Curie-Weiss law is obeyed:
$\chi_{m}=\chi_{0}+\chi_{\rm CW}$, where $\chi_{\rm CW}=C/(T-\theta)$.
The effective magnetic moment in the (Li/Fe)OH layers is fitted as
$\mu_{\rm Fe}\approx 4.2\sim 4.6\,\mu_{\rm B}$, consistent with the
previous results [10]. These local magnetic moments are nearly free. But
the fitted θ is of a small negative value (−6.6 to −7.5 K), implying an
AFM long-range order will eventually form in the (Li/Fe)OH layers in the
lower temperature regime [8]. A constant term χ₀ signifies a Pauli
paramagnetic contribution from itinerant charge carriers. But a
deviation from the modified Curie-Weiss law is evident again below the
characteristic temperature T^(*)(=120 K). When the Curie-Weiss term
$\chi_{\rm CW}$ is subtracted, the rest part of magnetic susceptibility
depends almost linearly on temperature in the range of 55 ∼ 75 K [inset
of Fig. 4(c)], suggesting the presence of two-dimensional AFM spin
fluctuations in the FeSe layers. Such a linear behavior has been
previously seen in the paramagnetic metallic states of iron arsenide
superconductors [16, 17]. Therefore, the prominent slope reduction in
the ρ_(ab)-T curve around T^(*) is likely due to the additional
scattering mechanism brought about by the emergent two-dimensional AFM
spin fluctuations and the vanishing mobility of holes below T^(*).

Finally, we have established a common temperature scale (T^(*) = 120 K)
in (Li_(0.84)Fe_(0.16))OHFe_(0.98)Se superconductor, which characterizes
the prominent reduction in the slope of the in-plane electric
resistivity, the kink in the ratio ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab), the dip in the in-plane
Hall coefficient, and the deviation in the magnetic susceptibility from
the Curie-Weiss law. Below this characteristic T^(*), normal state
electronic behaviors are getting highly two dimensional and the AFM spin
fluctuations in the FeSe layers set in, manifested by the anomalous
linear in-plane electric resistivity and nearly linear magnetic
susceptibility deduced for the FeSe layers. The two-dimensional
electron-electron interaction is crucial to the electron pairing of
superconductivity in the FeSe layers, as commonly believed in optimal
iron arsenide [18, 19, 20] and copper-oxide high temperature
superconductors [21, 22, 23], as well as in heavy fermion [24, 25] and
organic superconductors [26]. Hence our results suggest that the
(Li_(0.84)Fe_(0.16))OHFe_(0.98)Se superconductor falls under the same
universality class.

In conclusion, we have successfully synthesized large and high quality
superconducting (Li_(0.84)Fe_(0.16))OHFe_(0.98)Se single crystal out of
insulating K_(0.83)Fe_(1.6)Se₂ matrix crystal via hydrothermal ion
exchange. Its in-plane lattice constants a and b determined as 3.78 A
are comparable to the primary bulk FeSe (3.77 A) and A_(x)Fe_(2 − x)Se₂
(3.90 A) superconductors. In contrast, its FeSe-tetrahedron layers
weakly bonded to the (Li/Fe)OH layers via hydrogen ions have a larger
interlayer spacing (9.32 A) compared with the bulk FeSe (5.52 A) and
A_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂ (7.02 A) superconductors. Consequently,
(Li_(0.84)Fe_(0.16))OHFe_(0.98)Se exhibits an enhanced two
dimensionality of the electronic structure and the higher
superconducting transition at 42 K than the bulk FeSe (∼8.5 K) and
A_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂ (∼30 K). Hence our findings provide an insight into
the pairing mechanism of high-T_(c) superconductivity.

Furthermore, a series of large single crystals of
(Li_(1 − x)Fe_(x))OHFe_(1 − y)Se system are expected by duplicating the
hydrothermal ion-exchange technique. The breakthrough in crystal
preparation reported here will greatly promote the in-depth
investigations on this system. In addition, this very successful
technique developed for synthesizing (Li_(0.84)Fe_(0.16))OHFe_(0.98)Se
crystals may be applicable in other layer-structured materials, opening
up a new route for producing and exploring high-quality bulk functional
crystals desired for both basic research and applications.

Figure 4: (Color online) The electric resistivity, Hall coefficient, and
static magnetic susceptibility of (Li_(0.84)Fe_(0.16))OHFe_(0.98)Se
single crystal. (a) The in-plane electric resistivity and the ratio of
the out-of-plane resistivity to the in-plane one as functions of
temperature. Around T^(*) = 120 K, the slope of the resistivity curve
undergoes a prominent reduction and a corresponding kink occurs in the
curve of ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab). The inset figure shows the linearly temperature
dependent range from 80 K down to T_(c) for ρ_(ab). (b) The in-plane
Hall coefficient $R_{\rm H}$ as a function of temperature exhibits a dip
feature around T^(*) = 120 K. The black curve is a guide to the eye. (c)
The temperature dependencies of static magnetic susceptibility χ = M/H
under magnetic fields along the c axis. The results _slightly_ depend on
the magnitude of the applied field. The sudden drops in the magnetic
susceptibility are due to the appearance of the superconductivity. In
the high temperature range, all the data can be fitted to a modified
Curie-Weiss law $\chi_{m}=\chi_{0}+\chi_{\rm CW}$. But a deviation is
clearly visible below T^(*) = 120 K as well. Further lowering
temperature, the rest magnetic susceptibility in which the Curie-Weiss
term is subtracted shows the nearly linear temperature dependence in a
narrow temperature range (the inset).

(Li_(0.84)Fe_(0.16))OHFe_(0.98)Se ....

This work is supported by the National Basic Research Program of China
(projects 2013CB921700), "Strategic Priority Research Program (B)" of
the Chinese Academy of Sciences (No. XDB07020100) and Natural Science
Foundation of China (projects 11274358, 11190020, and 91222107).

## References

* [1] F. C. Hsu, J. Y. Luo, K. W. Yeh, T. K. Chen, T. W. Huang, P. M.
Wu, Y. C. Lee, Y. L. Huang, Y. Y. Chu, D. C. Yan, and M. K. Wu, Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **105**, 14262 (2008). * [2] T. M. McQueen, Q.
Huang, V. Ksenofontov, C. Felser, Q. Xu, H. Zandbergen, Y. S. Hor, J.
Allred, A. J. Williams, D. Qu, J. Checkelsky, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 014522 (2009). * [3] Q. Y. Wang, Z. Li, W. H.
Zhang, Z. C. Zhang, J. S. Zhang, W. Li, H. Ding, Y. B. Ou, P. Deng, K.
Chang, J. Wen, C. L. Song, K. He, J. F. Jia, S. H. Ji, Y. Y. Wang, L. L.
Wang, X. Chen, X. C. Ma, and Q. K. Xue, Chin. Phys. Lett. **29**, 037402
(2012). * [4] D. F. Liu, W. H. Zhang, D. X. Mou, J. F. He, Y. B. Ou, Q.
Y. Wang, Z. Li, L. L. Wang, L. Zhao, S. L. He, Y. Y. Peng, X. Liu, C. Y.
Chen, L. Yu, G. D. Liu, X. L. Dong, J. Zhang, C. T. Chen, Z. Y. Xu, J.
P. Hu, X. Chen, X. C. Ma, Q. K. Xue, and X. J. Zhou, Nat. Commun. **3**,
931 (2012). * [5] S. L. He, J. F. He, W. H. Zhang, L. Zhao, D. F. Liu,
X. Liu, D. X. Mou, Y. B. Ou, Q. Y. Wang, Z. Li, L. L. Wang, Y. Y. Peng,
Y. Liu, C. Y. Chen, L. Yu, G. D. Liu, X. L. Dong, J. Zhang, C. T. Chen,
Z. Y. Xu, X. Chen, X. Ma, Q. K. Xue, and X. J. Zhou, Nat. Mater. **12**,
605 (2013). * [6] S. Y. Tan, Y. Zhang, M. Xia, Z. R. Ye, F. Chen, X.
Xie, R. Peng, D. F. Xu, Q. Fan, H. C. Xu, J. Jiang, T. Zhang, X. C. Lai,
T. Xiang, J. P. Hu, B. P. Xie, and D. L. Feng, Nat. Mater. **12**, 634
(2013). * [7] W. Bao, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **27**, 023201 (2015). *
[8] X. F. Lu, N. Z. Wang, H. Wu, Y. P. Wu, D. Zhao, X. Z. Zeng, X. G.
Luo, T. Wu, W. Bao, G. H. Zhang, F. Q. Huang, Q. Z. Huang, and X. H.
Chen, Nat. Mater. **14**, 325 (2014). * [9] U. Pachmayr, F. Nitsche, H.
Luetkens, S. Kamusella, F. Brueckner, R. Sarkar, H.-H. Klauss, and D.
Johrendt, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **54**, 293 (2015). * [10] H. Sun, D. N.
Woodruff, S. J. Cassidy, G. M. Allcroft, S. J. Sedlmaier, A. L.
Thompson, P. A. Bingham, S. D. Forder, S. Cartenet, N. Mary, S. Ramos,
F. R. Foronda, B. H. Williams, X. Li, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke,
Inorg. Chem. **54**, 1958 (2015) and supplementary information. * [11]
X. Dong, H. Zhou, H. Yang, J. Yuan, K. Jin, F. Zhou, D. Yuan, L. Wei, J.
Li, X. Wang, G. Zhang, and Z. Zhao, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **137**, 66
(2015). * [12] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.92.064515 for crystal
synthesis, x-ray diffraction patterns, crystallographic data, as well as
the magnetic and charge transport results of FeSe11111 and KFS245
samples. * [13] W. K. Kwok, S. Fleshler, U. Welp, V. M. Vinokur, J.
Downey, G. W. Crabtree, and M. M. Miller, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 3370
(1992). * [14] G. Blatter, M. V. Feigelman, V. B. Geshkenbein, A. I.
Larkin, and V. M. Vinokur, Rev. Mod. Phys. **66**, 1125 (1994). * [15]
N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [16] G. Wu, H. Chen, T. Wu, Y. L. Xie, Y. J. Yan, R. H.
Liu, X. F. Wang, J. J. Ying, and X. H. Chen, J. Phys. Condens. Matter
**20**, 422201 (2008). * [17] G. M. Zhang, Y. H. Su, Z. Y. Lu, Z. Y.
Weng, D. H. Lee, and T. Xiang, Europhys. Lett. **86**, 37006 (2009). *
[18] N. Doiron-Leyraud, P. Auban-Senzier, S. Rene de Cotret, C.
Boufbonnais, D. Jerome, K. Bechgaard, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 214531 (2009). * [19] S. Ishida, M. Nakajima, Y. Tomioka, T.
Ito, K. Miyazawa, H. Kito, C. H. Lee, M. Ishikado, S. Shamoto, A. Iyo,
H. Eisaki, K. M. Kojima, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 094515
(2010). * [20] G. N. Tam, B. D. Faeth, J. S. Kim, and G. R. Stewart,
Phys. Rev. B **88**, 134503 (2013). * [21] Y. Ando, S. Komiya, K.
Segawa, S. Ono, and Y. Kurita, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 267001 (2004). *
[22] N. E. Hussey, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **20**, 123201 (2008). *
[23] K. Jin, N. P. Butch, K. Kirshenbaum, J. Paglione, and R. L. Greene,
Nature (London) **476**, 73 (2011). * [24] M. B. Maple, C. L. Seaman, D.
A. Gajewski, Y. Dalichaouch, V. B. Barbetta, M. C. Deandrade, H. A.
Mook, H. G. Lukefahr, O. O. Bernal, and D. E. Maclaughlin, J. Low. Temp.
Phys. **95**, 225 (1994). * [25] Q. Si and F. Steglich, Science **329**,
1161 (2010). * [26] D. Jerome, J. Superconduct. Novel Magn. **25**, 633
(2012).
