# Crystal structure and superconductivity in the Ni-based ternary
compound LaNiSi

W. H. Lee and F. A. Yang

Department of Physics, National Chung Cheng University, Ming-Hsiung,
Chia-Yi 621, Taiwan, Republic of China

C. R. Shih and H. D. Yang

Department of Physics, National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung 804,
Taiwan, Republic of China

26 May 1994

###### Abstract

With powder-x-ray-diffraction methods, the ternary compound LaNiSi has
been identified to have a LaPtSi-type crystal structure with four
formula units in a unit cell of the space group _14_1_md_ with
dimensions a = 4.181(1) A, c = 14.069(8) A. The agreement of the
transition temperature _Tc_ = 1.20 1.26 K (10 90

Recently there have been some notable discussions on the existence of
superconductivity in nickel-based ternary or quaternary intermetallic
compounds.[1, 2, 3, 4] As mentioned by Nagarajan _et al._, [2] only a
small number of nickel-containing binary superconductors are known in
the literature and no Ni-based ternary superconductor was previously
reported until the discovery of the superconductivity in Y-Ni-B.
Clearly, the ferromagnetic element Ni in a compound usually has an
adverse effect on the superconductivity properties. Thus, the
identification of superconducting Ni-based compounds is of high current
interest. In this paper, we report superconductivity in the compound
LaNiSi. To our knowledge, this is the first nickel-based
ternary-silicide superconductor. As shown by ac-susceptibility and
heat-capacity measurements, this compound undergoes a superconducting
transition at 1.23 K (the midpoint of the transition). We have also
determined the crystal structure and lattice parameters of a unit cell
for this compound using powder-x-ray-diffraction analysis.

Polycrystalline LaNiSi was synthesized by arc melting stoichiometric
amounts of the constituent elements in a Zr-gettered arc furnace on a
water-cooled Cu hearth under purified argon of about 1 atm. La with a
purity of 99.9

The low-temperature ac-magnetic-susceptibility measure

Figure 1: Room-temperature powder-x-ray-diffraction pattern of LaNiSi
using Cu _K_α radiation.

ments were performed in a He³-He⁴ dilution refrigerator down to 70 mK.⁶
A lock-in amplifier served to measure these signals and a germanium
thermometer calibrated to an accuracy within 0.1

The specific heat of a piece (∼3 mg) cut from the sample was measured in
the range of 0.7−20 K with a He³ relaxation calorimeter using the
heat-pulse technique [7] in the earth’s magnetic field. The sample was
attached to a sapphire chip, which has two separated silicon films
deposited on it to serve as heater and thermometer. The calibration of
the thermometer was done against a calibrated germanium thermometer. For
each point of the specific-heat measurements, a small heat power was
introduced to the chip and the thermal relaxation was measured and
analyzed to obtain the specific heat of the sample. Figure 3 displays
the temperature dependence of the specific C for the compound LaNiSi
between 0.7 and 3 K. In both $X_{\rm ac}$ and C measurements the
transition occurs over an interval of about 0.06 K (10−90

Figure 4: Specific heat divided by temperature C/T vs T² of LaNiSi
between 1.3 and 20 K. The value of γ was obtained by extrapolating the
specific heat in this plot of C/T vs T² down to 0 K.

Figure 5: Electrical resistivity vs temperature between 1.26 and 300 K
for LaNiSi. Inset: ρ vs T between 1.26 and 3.0 K.

Figure 3: Heat capacity of LaNiSi between 0.7 and 3 K in the earth’s
field.

of γ (8.89 mJ/mol K²) is in good agreement. According to the microscopic
theory of superconductivity, the specific-heat data below T_(c) have a
dominant low-temperature behavior of the form exp (−Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c)).
Analysis of our data shown in Fig. 3 provides evidence for the gap to be
of the order of 3.6 meV, that is, 2Δ(0) = 3.5k_(B)T_(c) as predicted by
the weak-coupling BCS model.
