Thermodynamic parameters of HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 − x) from high-field
magnetization

Mun-Seog Kim^(⋆) and Myoung-Kwang Bae

Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology, P.O.
Box 125, Pohang 790-784, South Korea

W. C. Lee

Department of Physics, Sook Myung Women’s University, Seoul 140-742,
South Korea

Sung-Ik Lee

Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology, P.O.
Box 125, Pohang 790-784, South Korea

and Physics Division, Research Institute of Industrial Science and
Technology, Pohang, South Korea

6 September 1994

###### Abstract

We have measured the temperature dependence of reversible magnetization
of grain-aligned HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 − x) high-T_(c) superconductors with
external magnetic field parallel to the c axis. Our data show the
crossover of the magnetization below the superconducting onset
temperature, which indicates a dominant vortex fluctuation. Except this
vortex fluctuation region, reversible magnetization data could be
described by using Hao and Clem’s model. From the analysis magnetization
curve based on this model, the thermodynamic critical field H_(c)(T) and
Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ = 118 were extracted. Also, we obtained the
superconducting parameters; the penetration depth λ_(ab)(0) = 2060 A,
coherence length ξ_(ab)(0) = 18 A, and the zero-temperature upper
critical field H_(c2)(0) = 108 T.

Since the discovery of high-temperature superconductors in Hg-based
copper oxides,[1] various forms of mercury cuprate[2, 3, 4] have been
synthesized. These materials have the highest transition temperature
known for layered Cu-O materials.

In our previous works,[5, 6] we synthesized the high-purity
polycrystalline HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 − x) superconductor by the freeze-drying
method, investigated the temperature dependence of reversible
magnetization for a grain-aligned sample, and elucidated the vortex
fluctuation effect.[7] Just below T_(c), vortices are thermally
distorted due to the weak interlayer coupling and form two-dimensional
pancake vortices.[7] This feature is reflected by a crossover of the
magnetization M(T) curves at T = 128 ±1 K. But the vortex fluctuation
model is based on the London model[8, 9, 10] for reversible
magnetization of high-κ type-II superconductors which is valid in
restricted field regions (H_(c1) ≪ H ≪ H_(c2)). In a mixed state of a
superconductor, the London model, however, only accounts for the
electromagnetic energy density $F_{\rm em}$ for the region outside the
vortex core; the core energy density $F_{\rm core}$ due to depression of
the order parameter to zero on the axes is ignored. But the contribution
of $F_{\rm core}$ to the magnetization is significant in a high field,
because the increase in magnetization is mainly associated with
$F_{\rm core}$.[11]

This paper reports the experimental results on reversible magnetization
outside vortex fluctuation region for a grain-aligned
HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 − x) sample. We have analyzed reversible magnetization
curves in the range 110 K  ≤ T≤ 124 K by using the model of Hao _et
al._[12] Since the model of Hao _et al._ accounts for, in addition to
the electromagnetic energy terms, the core energy terms in calculating
the free energy, this model offers more reasonable thermodynamic
parameters for magnetization in this temperature region. From this
analysis, the Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ and thermodynamic critical
field H_(c)(T), penetration depth λ_(ab), coherence length ξ_(ab), and
upper critical field at T = 0 K were obtained.

The sample was synthesized according to the procedure given in Ref. 5.
The Ba₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(u) precursor material was mixed with HgO and pressed
into a pellet. A pellet of nominal composition HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(u) was
placed inside an alumina tube and then inside a thick-walled quartz
tube. The sample was heated for 5 h at 900 ^(∘)C and then cooled to room
temperature. The oxygenation was carried out in flowing oxygen at 300
^(∘)C for 20 h. To obtain a c-axis-aligned sample, the method of Farrell
_et al._[13] was employed. The powders were aligned in epoxy with an
external magnetic field of 7 T. The alignment was confirmed by an
x-ray-diffraction (XRD) experiment. The full width at half maximum
(FWHM) of the rocking curve was less than 1^(∘). The temperature
dependence of the magnetization was measured by using a superconducting
quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer (MPMS, Quantum Design).
We repeated the measurement in zero-field-cooled and field-cooled
conditions at various magnetic fields. Weak temperature-dependent
contributions originated from the epoxy and the paramagnetic impurities
were subtracted from the observed values by fitting the magnetization
curve at a high-temperature region (200 K  < T< 250 K) by (C/T + χ₀).

The dimensionless Ginzburg-Landau free energy[14] per unit volume over
cross-sectional area A in a plane perpendicular to the vortices,
measured relative to that of the Meissner state, can be expressed as

$$F = \frac{1}{A}\int d^{2}\rho\Biggl{[}\frac{1}{2}(1-f^{2})^{2}+\frac{1}{ \kappa^{2}}(\nabla f)^{2}$$
(1)
$$+f^{2}\left(a+\frac{1}{\kappa}\nabla\gamma\right)^{2}+b^{2}\Biggr{]}.$$

In this integral, the first two terms represent the core energy density
and the last two terms represent the electromagnetic energy density. f
and γ are the normalized magnitude and phase of the order parameter
Ψ = Ψ₀fe^(iγ). In this dimensionless equation, length ρ, magnetic field,
and free energy are normalized by penetration depth λ, $\sqrt{2}H_{c}$,
and H_(c)²/4π, respectively, where H_(c) is the thermodynamic critical
field. Hao _et al._ assume for the order parameter a trial function Hao
_et al._ assume for the order parameter a trial function Hao _et al._
(1990) as follows:

$$f=\frac{\rho}{(\rho^{2}+\xi_{\rm v}^{2})^{1/2}}f_{\infty},$$
(2)

where $\xi_{\rm v}$ and f_(∞) are variational parameters representing
the effective core radius of a vortex and the depression in the order
parameter due to the overlapping of vortices, respectively. The
dimensionless magnetization −4πM^(′) is given by

$$-4\pi M^{\prime} = \frac{1}{2}\frac{\partial}{\partial B}(F-B^{2})_{f_{\infty},\xi_{ \rm v}}$$
(3)
$$= \frac{\kappa f_{\infty}^{2}\xi_{\rm v}^{2}}{2}\left[\frac{1-f_{ \infty}^{2}}{2}\ln\biggl{(}\frac{2}{B\kappa\xi_{\rm v}^{2}}+1\biggr{)}-\frac{1 -f_{\infty}^{2}}{2+B\kappa\xi_{\rm v}^{2}}+\frac{f_{\infty}^{2}}{(2+B\kappa\xi _{\rm v}^{2})^{2}}\right]+\frac{f_{\infty}^{2}(2+3B\kappa\xi_{\rm v}^{2})}{2 \kappa(2+B\kappa\xi_{\rm v}^{2})^{3}}$$
(4)
$$+\frac{f_{\infty}}{2\kappa\xi_{\rm v}K_{1}(f_{\infty}\xi_{\rm v}) }\left[K_{0}[\xi_{\rm v}(f_{\infty}^{2}+2B\kappa)^{1/2}]-\frac{B\kappa\xi_{ \rm v}K_{1}[\xi_{\rm v}(f_{\infty}^{2}+2B\kappa)^{1/2}]}{(f_{\infty}^{2}+2B \kappa)^{1/2}}\right],$$

where K_(n)(x) is a modified Bessel function of nth order. The first two
terms denote the core energy contribution to magnetization. The last
term denotes the contribution of the electromagnetic energy.

Two suitable variational parameters f_(∞) and ξ_(v) to minimize the free
energy for arbitrary B and κ are approximately written as

$$f_{\infty}^{2} = 1-\left[\frac{B}{\kappa}\right]^{4},$$
(5)
$$\left[\frac{\xi_{\rm v}}{\xi_{\rm v0}}\right]^{2} = \left[1-2\left(1-\frac{B}{\kappa}\right)^{2}\frac{B}{\kappa} \right]\left[1+\left(\frac{B}{\kappa}\right)^{4}\right],$$
(6)

for the cases of κ > 10 with $\kappa\xi_{\rm v0}=\sqrt{2}$. This model
was further extended to include anisotropy by using an effective-mass
tensor.

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of the reversible
magnetization of HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 − x) for various external magnetic
fields parallel to the c axis. The obvious feature in Fig. 1 is the
crossover of magnetization curves near T = 128 K. As mentioned above,
this originates from the vortex fluctuation effect.^(6, 7) For a
theoretical description of our reversible magnetization data, we choose
a set of data {−4πM_(i), H_(i)} (i = 1, 2, ...) at a fixed temperature
in temperature range 110 K  ≤ T≤ 124 K as shown in the inset of Fig. 1.
If the proper value of κ is chosen, then −4πM(H) curves could be
represented to a universal curve with a scaling factor
$\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$, consistent with Eq. (4). Our best fit gives κ = 118
± 8. Figure 2 shows $-4\pi M^{\prime}=-4\pi M/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ versus
$H^{\prime}=H/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ of the experimental data and theoretical
fitting. For each temperature, all data are collapsed onto a single
curve. Figure 3 shows H_(c)(T) obtained from the above analysis versus
temperature, and a fit to the BCS temperature dependence of H_(c)(T),¹⁵

$$\frac{H_{c}(T)}{H_{c}(0)} = 1.7367\left[1-\frac{T}{T_{c}}\right]\left[1-0.2730\left(1-\frac{T} {T_{c}}\right)\right.$$
(7)
$$\left.-0.0949\left(1-\frac{T}{T_{c}}\right)^{2}\right],$$

which yields H_(c)(0) = 5.877 × 10³± 52 Oe with T_(c) =

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of reversible magnetization 4πM(T) with
the theoretical curves (solid line) for HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 − x) for H ∥ c.
Inset: magnetization versus magnetic field at various temperature.

135.7 ± 0.2 K. From a good fit of H_(c)(T) by using Eq. (7), we expect
that the temperature dependence of H_(c)(T) by BCS theory is valid in
our sample. And the theoretical curves of −4πM(T) are obtained using
$-4\pi M(T)=-4\pi M^{\prime}(H)\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ and Eq. (7) at constant
H. The solid line of Fig. 1 shows calculated −4πM(T). We note that the
experimental data deviate from the theoretical curve for the temperature
range 124 K  ≤ T ≤ T_(c). We conjecture that this is due to the
influence of the vortex fluctuation effect, which gets more important as
the temperature increases to near the T_(c).[7] In the vortex
fluctuation region 124 K  ≤ T ≤ T_(c), the contribution of the
distortion of the vortices lattice to the free energy should be
considered in order to describe −4πM(H, T) properly. However, for 110 K
 ≤ T≤ 124 K, the vortex fluctuation effect could be ignored compared
with $F_{\rm em}$ and $F_{\rm core}$.

According to the relation $H_{c2}(T)=\sqrt{2}\kappa H_{c}(T)$, the upper
critical field slope (∂H_(c2)/∂T)_(T_(c)) = −1.15± 0.02 T/K is
estimated. The slope can be used to estimate the upper critical field at
T = 0 by using the formula[16]

$$H_{c2}(0)=0.5758\left[\frac{\kappa_{1}(0)}{\kappa}\right]T_{c}\left|\frac{ \partial H_{c2}}{\partial T}\right|_{T_{c}}.$$
(8)

In the dirty limit κ₁(0)/κ =1.20,[17] while in the clean
limit[18]κ₁(0)/κ =1.26. From this formula, H_(c2)^(c)(0) is estimated
108.1 ± 1.6 T assuming the dirty limit and 113.5 ± 1.7 T assuming the
clean limit. And the upper critical field is related to the coherence
length by H_(c2)^(c)(0) = ϕ₀/2πξ_(ab)²(0). The calculated ξ_(ab)(0) is
17.5 ± 0.14 A in the dirty limit. And λ_(ab)(0) = 2059± 15 A is
extracted from κ = λ/ξ.

In the model of Hao _et al._, only high-magnetic-field magnetization is
used for the analysis for the temperature range 110 K  ≤ T≤ 124 K, where
the vortex fluctuation effect can be ignored. Comparing our values with
those from the vortex fluctuation analysis,[6] our κ = 118 and
H_(c2)(0) = 108 T are, somewhat, larger than those of the latter
analysis. That inconsistency might result from the uncertainty in
subtracting the magnetic impurity background. However, recalling that
the model of Hao _et al._ is based on high-magnetic-field magnetization
and all carriers are confined at the lowest Landau orbit in a high
magnetic field,[19] our values are consistent with high-magnetic-field
scaling results.[20]

Our derived κ = 118 for HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 − ε) is much larger than
Y-123.[12] But it is known that κ is proportional to λ/ξ in the clean
limit and λ/l in the dirty limit.[9] As Eilenberger[18] pointed out
previously, κ might depend not only on λ/ξ, but also on the degree of
anisotropy in the impurity scattering. In another sense, κ reflects the
different degree of sensitivity of the various magnetic properties of a
superconductor to the degree of nonlocality. Therefore, more detailed
theories and experiments are needed to clarify the difference between
the two systems.

In summary, we measured the high-magnetic-field magnetization for
grain-aligned HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 − ε) with the magnetic field parallel to
the c axis. Using the model of Hao _et al._, we obtained the
Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ = 118 and upper critical field slope
(∂H_(c2)/∂T)_(T_(c)) = −1.15 T/K, which show that λ_(ab)(0) = 2060 A and
ξ_(ab)(0) = 18 A. Our derived values are consistent with those from
high-magnetic-field scaling results.

## References

* [1] S. N. Putilin, E. V. Antipov, O. Chmaissem, and M. Marezio, Nature
**362,** 226 (1993). * [2] A. Schilling, M. Cantoni, J. D. Guo, and H.
R. Ott, Nature **363,** 56 (1993). * [3] L. Gao, J. Z. Huang, R. L.
Meng, G. Lin, F. Chen, L. Beauvaiis, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W.
Chu, Physica C **213,** 261 (1993). * [4] C. W. Chu, L. Gao, F. Chen, J.
Z. Huang, R. L. Meng, and Y. Y. Xue, Nature **365,** 323 (1993). * [5]
Sergey Lee, Mi-Ock Mun, Myoung-Kwang Bae, and Sung-Ik Lee, J. Mater.
Chem. **4,** 991 (1994). * [6] Myoung-Kwang Bae, M. S. Choi, Mi-Ock Mun,
Sergey Lee, Sung-Ik Lee, and W. C. Lee, Physica C **228,** 195 (1994). *
[7] L. N. Bulaevskii, M. Ledvij, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**68,** 3773 (1992). * [8] A. A. Abrikosov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **32,**
1442 (1957) [Sov.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of thermodynamic critical field
H_(c)(T) obtained from the theoretical fitting. Solid line represents
the BCS temperature dependence of H_(c)(T).

Figure 2: The curves of −4πM(H) scaled by $\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$. Solid line
represents the universal curve by the model of Hao _et al._ with κ =
118.

Phys. JETP **5**, 1174 (1957)]. * [9] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1980). * [10] P. G. de
Gennes, _Superconductivity of Metals and Alloys_ (Benjamin, New York,
1966). * [11] Zhidong Hao and John R. Clem, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67,**
2371 (1991). * [12] Zhidong Hao, John R. Clem, M. W. McElfresh, L.
Civale, A. P. Malozemoff, and F. Holtzberg, Phys. Rev. B. **43,** 2844
(1991). * [13] D. E. Farrell, B. S. Chandrasekhar, M. M. Fang, V. G.
Kogan, J. R. Clem, and D. K. Finnemore, Phys. Rev. B **36,** 4025
(1987). * [14] A. L. Fetter and P. C. Hohenberg, in _Superconductivity_,
edited by R. D. Parks (Marcel Dekker, New York, 1969), p. 817. * [15] J.
R. Clem, Ann. Phys (N.Y.) **40,** 286 (1966). * [16] B. Muhlschlegel, Z.
Phys. **155,** 584 (1967). * [17] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147,** 295 (1966). * [18] G. Eilenberger, Phys.
Rev. **153,** 584 (1967). * [19] S. Ullah and A. T. Dorsey, Phys. Rev. B
**44,** 262 (1991). * [20] Myoung-Kwang Bae, M. S. Choi, Sergey Lee,
Sung-Ik Lee, and W. C. Lee, Physica C **231**, 249 (1994).
