Superconductivity of black phosphorus (black P) is interesting and has
been investigated at low temperatures and high pressures.1-4 The
superconducting transition temperature (_T_c ) versus pressure curve
depends on the path in the _P-T_ phase diagram.1,2 When pressure is
increased at liquid-helium temperature the _T_c of black P goes up to
about 11 K. If red phosphorus (red P) is used as a starting material and
pressurized at 4.2 K, the _T_c increases up to 13 K, while the onset
temperature of the transition reaches 18 K at 30 GPa.2 This is the
highest _T_c among the elements. Wittig, Bireckoven, and Weidlich have
found a _T_c of 10 K and double maxima in the _T_c-_P_ curve.3
Valyanskaya, Stepanov, and Yakovle have studied the superconductivity
under high pressure using red P as the starting material.4
Superconductivity has also been observed in phosphorus-arsenic alloys.
The value of _T_c goes up to 10 K as pressure is increased at 4.2 K.5,6

Black P is transformed from an orthorhombic to a rhombohedral structure
at around 5 GPa and then further to a simple cubic structure at around
10 GPa at room temperature.7-9 By using synchrotron radiation, the phase
transitions of black P have already been studied at low temperatures and
high pressures.2,10 The relationship between the structure and the _T_c
has been discussed. Phosphorus-arsenic alloys with composition
P1-_x_As_x (_x_: 0.05,0.1,0.2,0.3,0.4,0.5) have been prepared at high
pressures and high temperatures. Their alloys are transformed from
orthorhombic to rhombohedral form and then further to simple-cubic form
with increasing pressure at room temperature.11 The transition pressure
from the orthorhombic structure to the rhombohedral structure is about 5
GPa for the alloys, and is not sensitive to the arsenic content (_x_).
On the other hand, the transition pressure from the rhombohedral form to
the simple-cubic form increases remarkably with increasing x. Recently,
the pressure-induced phase transitions of black P and P1-_x_As_x (_x_:
0.05,0.1) have been studied at low temperatures. In this paper we
present the results of x-ray diffraction concerning the black P and the
alloys at low temperatures and high pressures, and their superconducting
properties are discussed.

[MISSING_PAGE_POST]

## Experiment

The high-pressure system consisted of a diamond-anvil pressure cell
mounted on a booster that was actuated by helium gas. The cell was made
from a beryllium-copper alloy except for the diamond-anvil mounting
plate. X-ray diffraction at low temperatures and high pressures was
measured with the high-pressure cell in a cryostat. The pressure can
continuously be changed at low temperatures. Details of the system are
described in another paper.12 X-ray diffraction of black P and
phosphorus-arsenic alloys was studied by an energy-dispersive method
using white x-rays from synchrotron radiation at low temperatures and
high pressures. The diffraction patterns of the samples and NaCl were
recorded at 2_th_ = 21deg. The diffraction lines of NaCl were used to
determine the pressure value according to Decker’s scale. Figure 1 shows
the pressure produced in the cell as a function of applied pressure. The
pressure applied by helium gas was measured with a strain gauge. When
the applied pressure becomes about 800 mV, the pressure produced in the
diamond cell rapidly increased at 21 K. An irreversible behavior was
observed for the increasing and decreasing pressure curves.

Black P and phosphorus-arsenic alloys with the composition P1-_x_As_x_
(_x_ = 0.05,0.1) were prepared using a wedge-type cubic-anvil
high-pressure apparatus.13 The upper and lower stages of the apparatus
consist of three anvils that slide on a wedge formed into shallow
_V_-shaped grooves. The anvil movement is completely synchronized by
means of the wedge system. The samples were prepared at 600 degC and 2
GPa for black P,13 and at 950 degC and 1-3 GPa for the alloys.11 The
composition of the alloys was determined by EPMA.

Using a diamond-anvil pressure cell mounted on a booster, which is
actuated by helium gas, the electrical resistivity of the single
crystals of black P and the alloys was studied at low temperatures and
at high pressures.1,2 The pressure can continuously be changed at
liquid-helium temperature.

## Results and Discussion

The preliminary results concerning the phase transitions of black P at
low temperatures and high pressures have already been reported.10 The
x-ray-diffraction study of black P has again been carried out with the
synchrotron radiation at low temperatures and high pressures. Figures
2(a) and 2(b) show the energy-dispersive x-ray-diffraction profiles of
black P in the pressure range of 0-16 GPa at 21 K. The pressure was
continuously increased at 21 K under quasihydrostatic conditions. The
(_hkl_)’s of the diffraction lines for the sample and for NaCl are
indicated in the figure. The diffraction lines of the orthorhombic phase
shifted to higher energies with increasing pressure. The first
transition from orthorhombic to rhombohedral started at around 7.5 GPa
under 21 K. The transition pressure at 21 K is about 3 GPa higher than
that of room temperature. A single phase of the rhombohedral form was
found at around 10.5 GPa. The orthorhombic and rhombohedral phases
coexisted over the pressure range of 7.5-10.5 GPa at 21 K. The second
transition to the simple-cubic phase appeared at around 12 GPa. This
value is about 2 GPa higher than that of room temperature. The
rhombohedral and simple-cubic phases coexisted over the pressure range
of 12-15.5 GPa at 21 K. The single phase of the simple-cubic form was
observed above 15.6 GPa at 21 K.

Figure 3 shows x-ray-diffraction patterns of black P at 21 K under
decreasing pressure. As the pressure was reduced from 15.6 GPa, the
simple-cubic phase began to be transformed into the rhombohedral one at
around 11 GPa under 21 K. The simple-cubic-to-rhombohedral transition
was nearly reversible with either an increase or a decrease in the
pressure at 21 K. The diffraction lines of the rhombohedral structure
was observed at room temperature and atmospheric pressure. The
rhombohedral phase was quenched. When pressure was again increased at 21
K, the rhombohedral phase transformed into the simple-cubic one at
around 12 GPa.

Phase transitions of phosphorus-arsenic alloys with composition
P1-_x_As_x_ (_x_ = 0.05,0.1,0.2,0.3,0.4,0.5) have already been studied
at room temperature and high pressures.11 The alloys are transformed
from the orthorhombic structure to the rhombohedral one at around 5 GPa,
and then to a simple-cubic one at around 13 GPa with increasing
pressure.

Figures 4(a) and 4(b) show energy dispersive x-ray-diffraction profiles
of P0.9As0.1 at various pressures under 21 K. The diffraction patterns
of the orthorhombic phase were found at 5.6 GPa. The first transition
from orthorhombic to rhombohedral started at around 8 GPa. This is
slightly higher than that of black P. The pattern of the rhombohedral
phase became dominant at around 10 GPa. The second transition to the
simple cubic form ap

Figure 1: The pressure produced in the diamond cell vs applied pressure
curve.

peared at around 14.9 GPa and 21 K. This pressure is about 3 GPa higher
than that of black P. The rhombohedral and the simple-cubic phases
coexisted over the pressure range of 15-22 GPa under the
quasibidrostatic condition. The single phase pattern of the simple-cubic
structure was observed about 22 GPa under 21 K. When the pressure was
reduced from 23 GPa to atmospheric pressure, the transition from the
simple-cubic form to the rhombohedral one appeared at around 11.5 GPa.
The diffraction pattern of the rhombohedral phase was found at room
temperature and atmospheric pressure. The pressure of the first and
second phase transitions of black P and P0,9As0,1 are summarized in
Table 1. Since the rate of attainment of equilibrium between both phases
was very slow, both phases coexisted in a wide pressure range at low
temperature. The pressures at which the phase transitions start are
given in the table.

The x-ray diffraction of P0,95As0,05 was also studied at 21 K and high
pressures. The behavior of the alloy was similar to that of black P and
P0,9As0,1 at low temperatures and high pressures. The transition from
orthorhombic to rhombohedral started at around 7 GPa. The transition to
the simple-cubic form appeared at around 13.5 GPa under 21 K. The single
phase of the simple cubic one was observed above 18 GPa at 21 K.

The rhombohedral structure can be derived from the simple-cubic
structure by application of two separate distortions, a rhombohedral
shear and a relative displacement along the [111] directions of the fcc
lattice into which a simple-cubic lattice can be resolved. The
simple-cubic structure can be regarded as a special case of the
rhombohedral structure with $c/a=\sqrt[6]{6}$, α = 60^(∘) and atomic
positional parameter $u=\frac{1}{4}$. Geometrical considerations suggest
that the rhombohedral lattice can continuously change to the
simple-cubic lattice and the transition can proceed continuously without
any jump in the specific volume at the transition. However, a
discontinuous volume change of about 3

Figure 3: X-ray-diffraction profiles of black P at 21 K under decreasing
pressure.

Figure 2: The energy dispersive x-ray-diffraction profiles of black P
over the pressure range of 0 –16 GPa at 21 K; O: orthorhombic, R:
rhombohedral, and C: simple cubic.

periments. A 3.7

Chang and Cohen pointed out that the rhombohedral phase is stable in
energy with respect to the simple-cubic structure at zero
temperature.[14] We have found the single phase of the simple-cubic form
above 15 GPa for black P, above 18 GPa for P0.95As0.05, and above 22 GPa
for P0.95As0.1 at 21 K. However, the rhombohedral and simple-cubic
phases coexist over a wider pressure range at 21 K compared with
room-temperature data. The stable region of the simple-cubic phase is
reduced at low temperatures.

When the rhombohedral structure changes to the simple-cubic one for
black P, the coordination number increases from 3 to 6. As a result of
the increase in the coordination number, the nearest-neighbor P–P bond
distance increases from 2,22 A for the rhombohedral form at 9.7 GPa to
2.39 A for the simple cubic one at 10.3 GPa.[8] The bond nature of black
P changes from predominantly covalent bonding to metallic bonding. The
lattice parameter of the simple-cubic phase in black P and alloys at 21
K was determined from the d values of the (100) and (110) reflections.
The lattice constants of the simple-cubic form are 2.362 A for black P,
2.389 A for P0.95As0.05 and 2.392 A for P0.95As0.1 at around 16 GPa
under 21 K. The thermal expansion of the simple

  ------- ---------------------- ------------ ----------------------- ------------
           **First transition**                **Second transition**  
            **pressure (GPa)**                  **pressure (GPa)**    
                    P             P0.95As0.1             P             P0.95As0.1
   300 K           4.8                5                 10                13.5
   77 K             6                 7                 11                 14
   21 K            7.5                8                 12                 15
  ------- ---------------------- ------------ ----------------------- ------------

Table 1: Transition pressures of P and P0.95As0.1 at various
temperatures. These values show the pressure at which the phase
transitions start.

Figure 4: The energy dispersive x-ray-diffraction patterns of P0.95As0.1
over the pressure range of 0–23 GPa at 21 K; _O_: orthorhombic, _R_:
rhombohedral, and C: simple cubic.

Figure 5: The temperature dependence of the resistivity of the
simple-cubic black P at 15 GPa below room temperature.

cubic phase of black P was studied at 13.6 GPa. The volume/atom of black
P at this pressure was 13.38 A3 at room temperature. The volume
decreased with decreasing temperature and became 13.33 A3 at 21 K. A
bulk expansion coefficient of the simple-cubic black P was approximately
13 × 10⁻⁶ per degree. This value is considerably smaller than that of
ordinary metals. Similar results were also found for P_(0.95)As_(0.05)
and P_(0.9)As_(0.1). Chang and Cohen suggest that the thermal expansion
should be small because of the instability of the simple-cubic
structure.[14] The experimental results are consistent with their
suggestion.

If pressure is increased at least up to 15 GPa at room temperature, the
single phase of the simple cubic form of black P is observed. The
temperature dependence of the resistivity of the simple-cubic black P
was measured under 15 GPa. Figure 5 shows the resistivity versus
temperature curve of the simple-cubic black P at 15 GPa. The resistivity
was 3.6 × 10⁻⁴Ω cm at room temperature and decreased monotonically with
decreasing temperature. The superconductivity was observed at around 6
K. The resistivity at around T_(c) (R_(c)) was 1.5 × 10⁻⁴Ω cm. The
resistivity ratio, R₃₀₀/R_(c), is about 2.4.

We have studied the superconductivity of black P and P-As alloys at
liquid-helium temperature and high pressures. The interesting
superconductivity is found when pressure is increased at liquid-helium
temperature. Figure 6 shows the T_(c) versus pressure curves of black P
and P_(0.9)As_(0.1) when pressure is continuously increased at 4.2 K.
The T_(c) of these materials rapidly went up to about 10 K at around 25
GPa. The T_(c) of the alloy is slightly lower than that of black P. The
single phase of the simple-cubic form was observed at around 15.5 GPa
for black P and 22 GPa for P_(0.9)As_(0.1) under 21 K. Thus, the T_(c)
of the simple-cubic structure was about 10 K at very high pressures.

As is shown in Table 1, the transition pressure from the
rhombohedral-to-simple-cubic form increased with decreasing temperature
for black P and P_(0.9)As_(0.1). The rhombohedral and simple-cubic
phases coexisted over the pressure range of 12−15.5 GPa for black P and
15−22 GPa for P_(0.9)As_(0.1) at 21 K. The coexistence region is much
wider than that observed at room temperature. The simple-cubic phase of
black P and its alloys may be unstable at very low temperatures.

Chang and Cohen have calculated[14] the phonon frequency for the LA mode
at the zone corner R point in the simple-cubic Brillouin zone. This
phonon mode corresponds to the displacement from the simple cubic to
rhombohedral phases. The phonon polarization for the LA mode at the zone
corner corresponds to a Peierls-like distortion of the hexagonal planes
in the [111] direction. This phonon mode is very soft near the zone
corner. The electron-phonon interactions are expected to be strong near
the R point.[14, 16] As mentioned above, the thermal expansion
coefficient of simple-cubic black P is smaller than that of ordinary
metals. They suggest that the thermal expansion of the simple-cubic form
should be small because its effect increases the discrepancy from this
structure. The high T_(c) of the simple-cubic phase may arise from the
lattice instability of this structure at very low temperatures.

## References

* [1] H. Kawamura, I. Shirotani, and K. Tachikawa, Solid State Commun.
**49**, 879 (1984); **54**, 775 (1985). * [2] I. Shirotani, H. Kawamura,
K. Tsuji, K. Tsuburaya, O. Shimomura, and K. Tachikawa, Bull. Chem. Soc.
Jpn. **61**, 211 (1988). * [3] J. Wittig, B. Bireckoven, and T.
Weidlich, in _Solid State Physics Under Pressure_, edited by S. Minomura
(KTK Scientific, Tokyo, 1985), p. 217. * [4] T. V. Valyanskaya, G. N.
Stepanov, and E. N. Yakovlev, Sov. Phys. Solid State **28**, 665
(1986). * [5] I. Shirotani, H. Kawamura, K. Tsuburaya, and K. Tachikawa,
Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **26-3**, Suppl. 921 (1987). * [6] I. Shirotani, K.
Tsuburaya, K. Takura, C. W. Lee, S. Shiba, H. Kawamura, and T. Yagi,
Synth. Met. **29**, F635 (1989). * [7] C. Jamieson, Science **139**,
1291 (1963). * [8] T. Kikegawa and H. Iwasaki, Acta Crystallogr. B
**39**, 158 (1983). * [9] T. Kikegawa, H. Iwasaki, T. Fujimura, S. Endo,
Y. Akahama, T. Akai, O. Shimomura, T. Yagi, S. Akimoto, and I.
Shirotani, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **20**, 406 (1987). * [10] I.
Shirotani, K. Tsuji, M. Imai, H. Kawamura, O. Shimomura, T. Kikegawa,
and T. Nakajima, Phys. Lett. A **144**, 102 (1990). * [11] Shirotani, S.
Shiba, K. Takemura, O. Shimomura, and T. Yagi, Physica B **190**, 169
(1993). * [12] K. Tsuji, in _Solid State Physics Under Pressure_, edited
by S. Minomura (KTK, Tokyo, 1985), p. 375. * [13] J. Shirotani, Mol.
Cryst. Liq. Cryst. **86**, 1943 (1982). * [14] K. J. Chang and M. L.
Cohen, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 6177 (1986). * [15] L. F. Matteiss, D. R.
Hamann, and W. Weber, Phys. Rev. B **34**, 2190 (1986). * [16] K. J.
Chang and L. Cohen, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 7371 (1986).
