Electronic ground state of heavily overdoped nonsuperconducting
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄

S. Nakamae,^(1, •) K. Behnia,¹ N. Mangkorntong,² M. Nohara,² H.
Takagi,^(2, 3, 4) S. J. C. Yates,${}^{5,\lx@sectionsign}$ and N. E.
Hussey⁵

¹LPQ (UPRS-CNRS), ESPCI, 10 Rue Wangelin, F-75005 Paris, France

²Department of Advanced Materials Science, Graduate School of Frontier
Sciences, University of Tokyo, Kashiwa-no-ha 5-1-5, Kashiwa-shi, Chiba
277-8651, Japan

³Institute of Physical and Chemical Research (RIKEN), Wako 351-0198,
Japan

⁴Correlated Electron Research Center, AIST, Tsukuba, Japan

⁵H. H. Wills Physics Laboratory, University of Bristol, Tyndall Avenue,
Bristol BS8 1TL, United Kingdom

25 June 2003; published 11 September 2003

###### Abstract

We report detailed thermodynamic and transport measurements for
nonsuperconducting La_(1.7)Sr_(0.3)CuO₄. Collectively, these data
support the presence of a highly correlated Fermi-liquid ground state in
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ beyond the superconducting dome, and imply that
charge transport in the cuprates is dominated at finite temperatures by
electron-electron scattering.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.68.100502 + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

The high-T_(c) cuprates (HTC’s) have emerged as one of the most
formidable challenges in solid-state physics.[1] In particular,
transport properties of the normal state present a number of uneasy
paradoxes for the Fermi-liquid (FL) picture. While it has been argued
that strong electron-phonon (_e_-ph) scattering might account for the
_T_-linear resistivity in optimally doped cuprates,[2] it is generally
assumed that proximity to a Mott insulator, and thus the unusual
strength of on-site electronic repulsion, is the fundamental reason
behind the more unusual aspects of HTC physics. This general assumption
is backed up by a host of experimental observations which indicate that
the anomalous behavior becomes even more pronounced with decreasing
density of carriers, that is, by moving towards the underdoped side. At
sufficiently high carrier concentrations however, it has often been
assumed that HTC’s eventually evolve into a conventional FL as the
electron correlations become weaker and the system becomes more three
dimensional (3D).

Ironically, the persistence of robust superconductivity on the overdoped
(OD) side of the phase diagram has been a major obstacle in the
exploration of the metallic nonsuperconducting ground state in HTC’s.
Indeed, supporting evidence for a FL ground state has only surfaced very
recently with the experimental verification of the Wiedemann-Franz (WF)
law in OD Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ) (Tl2201) (T_(c)∼ 15 K).[3] By suppressing
superconductivity in a large magnetic field, Proust _et al._ observed
the precise WF ratio κ_(ab)/σ_(ab)=L₀, where κ_(ab) and σ_(ab) are the
in-plane thermal and electrical conductivities and the Lorenz number L₀=
2.44 × 10⁻⁸ WΩ/K⁻². Surprisingly however, and at odds with a
conventional FL picture, the WF relation was found to coexist with a
large linear resistivity term extending down to 0 K. This dichotomy
raises the question whether the field-induced "normal state" in OD
HTC’s, i.e., beyond H_(c2), is the same as the ground state that would
exist in the absence of a magnetic field, as it does in more
conventional superconductors. Moreover, a clear understanding of the
experimental situation in OD cuprates has often been compounded by their
tendency to undergo phase separation.

In this communication, we present in- (ρ_(ab)) and out-of-plane (ρ_(c))
resistivity, in- (κ_(ab)) and out-of-plane (κ_(c)) thermal conductivity,
specific heat (C) and magnetic susceptibility (χ) measurements on
single-phase nonsuperconducting La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO) crystals (x
= 0.30) in which these various concerns are removed. Collectively, the
data provide a consistent picture of La_(1.7)Sr_(0.3)CuO₄ as a highly
correlated FL. The WF law is verified to within our experimental
resolution, though in contrast to OD Tl2201, both ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c)
exhibit strictly T² behavior below 50 K, _with no additional linear
term_. Significantly, the Kadowaki-Woods ratio, linking the coefficient
A of the (in-plane) T² resistivity and the square of the linear
specific-heat coefficient γ₀, is found to be anomalously enhanced, even
compared with other strongly correlated metals. This latter observation
implies that intense _e_-_e_ scattering persists beyond the
superconducting dome and sheds more light on the evolution of ρ_(ab)(T)
across the HTC phase diagram.

Seven bar-shaped samples (typical dimensions 3 mm ×0.6 mm×0.6 mm) were
prepared for either ab-plane (A1-4) or c-axis (C1-3) measurements from a
large La_(1.7)Sr_(0.3)CuO₄ single crystal grown in an infrared image
furnace. The individual ingots were post-annealed together with the
remaining boule under extremely high partial pressures of oxygen (400
atm) for 2 weeks at 900 ^(∘)C to minimize oxygen deficiencies and to
ensure good homogeneity within each crystal. Subsequent x-ray analysis
revealed good crystallinity and no trace of superconductivity could be
detected (resistively) down to 95 mK (see top inset to Fig. 1),
confirming that these crystals were indeed single phase. χ(T) of the
boule was measured with a commercial magnetometer, while C(T) was
measured between 0.6 K and 10 K in a relaxation calorimeter. In both
cases, addenda contributions were measured independently and subtracted
from the raw data. κ(T) of A1, A2, and C1 were measured in a dilution
refrigerator using three RuO₂ chips employed as one heater and two
thermometers. ρ(T) measurements were made on all seven samples using a
conventional ac four-probe method. For all transport measurements,
current and voltage contacts were painted onto the crystals so as to
short out any spurious voltage drops from orthogonal components of the
conductivity tensor. Uncertainty in the geometrical factor was esti
mated to be ∼ 20

Figure 1 shows ρ(T) of A1, A2, and C1 below 30 K. (All crystals reported
here showed similar behavior). Note the similar metallic T dependencies
observed along both orthogonal directions, the different residual
resistivities (ρ₀) for A1 and A2, and the strong upward curvature across
the entire temperature range. The resistivity ratio ρ_(c)(C1)/ρ_(ab)(A1)
rises from ∼ 65 at 300 K to ∼ 80 as T → 0, presumably due to slight
differences in their ρ₀ values. The limiting low-_T_ resistivities of C1
and A3 are reproduced in the top inset to Fig. 1. No current dependence
was observed in ρ(T) down to 0.1 A/cm², well below typical critical
current densities found in HTC. The lower inset shows Δρ_(c)/ρ_(c) for
C1 (_B_∥_ab_) plotted versus B2 at T = 0.5 K. Inserting the fit to the
low-field data (see caption) into the Boltzmann transport equation for a
quasi-2D FL (see, e.g., Ref. [4]), we obtain an estimate of the in-plane
electronic mean free path ℓ_(ab)∼ 145 A. Finally, using k_(F) = 0.55 A⁻¹
for La_(1.5)Sr_(0.5)CuO₄ (Ref. [5]) and the "isotropic-ℓ"
approximation,[6] we obtain ρ_(ab0)= 21 _m_l O cm. This value is in good
agreement with ρ₀(A1) and implies that _all_ carriers contribute to the
metallic conductivity.

In the top panel of Fig. 2, ρ(T) of A3, A4, and C2 are plotted versus
T1. In a previous study,[7] such noninteger power-law resistivities were
shown to extend from the lowest temperatures up to 1000 K. While ρ(T) of
our crystals follows very closely a T1.6 dependence at elevated
temperatures, the T dependence clearly becomes stronger than T1.6 below
_T_≈ 100 K. Indeed, as shown in the bottom panel in Fig. 2, (ρ-ρ₀)(_T_)
= _A_T_2 up to at least T = 55 K _for both current directions_ [(ρ -
ρ₀)(_T_) for A4 is shown in an inset for clarity]. Significantly, A has
the same magnitude (∼ 2.5 ± 0.1 _n_l O cm/K²) for all in-plane crystals,
even though ρ₀(A2A3)∼ 2ρ₀(A1A4). To our knowledge, this is the first
time a pure T2 resistivity has been resolved in a hole-doped cuprate
[recall that in OD Tl2201, (ρ - ρ₀)(_T_) = αT+ _A_T_2 (Ref. [3]) and
coupled with good Mathiessen’s rule behavior implies that in
La_(1.7)Sr_(0.5)CuO₄ at least, charge transport is consistent with an
anisotropic 3D FL picture.[8]

In Fig. 3, the low-_T_ thermal conductivities of A1, A2, and C1 are
plotted as κ/T versus T2. Note that A1 and A2 are better conductors of
heat, as expected since σ_(c)≪σ_(ab), and that κ(A1)>κ(A2), reflecting
their respective ρ₀ values. The sizable phonon term κ_(ph) in HTC’s has
often been a major obstacle to the determination of κ_(el), the
electronic contribution to κ(T). In this instance, however, we can make
use of the fact that A1 and A2 have different residual resistivities and
simply compare the difference in the residual _conductivities_Δσ₀ with
the difference in κ_(ab) for the two crystals. This comparison is shown
in the left-hand-side inset to Fig. 3. Between 0.3 K and 1 K,
Δκ_(ab)/T=0.57 mW/ cm K² (the dotted line). This compares favorably with
our estimate (dashed line) of Δκ_(ab)/T= L0/Δσ₀=0.70 mW/ cm K². A
similar conclusion can be deduced by comparing κ_(ab) with κ_(c)(C1), if
one assumes that κ_(ph) is anisotropic and introduce a scaling factor f
(in this case, f = 1.6) between the in-plane and out-of-plane κ_(ph),
i.e., κ_(el)= κ_(ab)−1.6κ_(c) . (Note that we do not expect anisotropy
in κ_(ph) to be temperature dependent below 1 K.) The resultant
κ_(el)/T, shown in the second inset to Fig. 3, are found to be 1.07 and
0.50 mW/

Figure 2: (a) ρ(T) of A3, A4 (solid lines), and C2 (dashed line) vs T1.6
Thin solid lines are provided as guides. (b) Low-_T_ρ(T) of A3 and C2 vs
T2. Inset: ρ vs T2 for A4.

Figure 1: Zero-field resistivity of A1, A2 (ρ_(ab), solid lines), and C1
(ρ_(c) dashed line). Upper inset: Low-_T_ρ(T) of A3 and C1. Lower inset:
Δρ_(c)/ρ_(c) vs B2 for C1 at 0.5 K (B∥_ab_). The solid line is a fit to
Δρ_(c)/ρ_(c) = 0.000 10B² – 3.1×10⁻⁸B⁴.

cm K² for A1 and A2, respectively (the dotted lines). This gives
ρ₀=L₀T/κ_(el)=23 (A1) and 49 (A2) μΩ cm, compared with the measured
values of 19 and 42 μΩ cm. Given our experimental uncertainty, the WF
law appears to be well satisfied in both our in-plane
La_(1.7)Sr_(0.3)CuO₄ crystals, at least down to 0.3 K. It should be
stressed here that σ_(ab0)(LSCO) is almost an order of magnitude smaller
than in OD Tl2201 [3], thus making separation of κ_(el) from κ_(ab) more
difficult.

The surprising feature of Fig. 3 is of course the strong downturn in
κ(A1) as T→0. (A slight downturn is also visible in the second inset for
A2 below 0.1 K, though not- where near as dramatic.) Note that this
downturn is robust both to changes in the thermal contacts and the
crystal dimensions. Intriguingly, a vanishing of κ_(el) has also been
observed in the electron-doped cuprate Pr_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄ [9]. In the
normal state above H_(c2), Hill _et al._ found that κ_(el)/T, while
violating the WF law for T>0.3 K (in the sense that it clearly exceeds
L₀/ρ), rapidly vanishes below 0.3 K. These two anomalous observations
appear to have a common origin. The sample-dependent aspect of the
downturn, however, suggests that it is extrinsic and unrelated to any
exotic electronic behavior, particularly in view of the other results
obtained here for La_(1.7)Sr_(0.3)CuO₄ above 0.3 K. We reserve a
detailed discussion on the origin of this anomalous downturn to a more
complete and systematic investigation [10].

The absence of superconductivity in La_(1.7)Sr_(0.3)CuO₄, coupled with
the emergence of a T² resistivity at low T, gives us a unique
opportunity to compare experimental manifestations of e-e correlations
in La_(1.7)Sr_(0.3)CuO₄ to other strongly correlated systems. Electronic
correlations in a FL are known to lead to an enhancement in the
quasiparticle effective mass. This effect can be detected through the
resistivity (AT²), specific heat (γ₀T), and magnetic susceptibility
(χ_(p)). Empirical relationships that correlate these physical
parameters have been found in a wide range of strongly correlated
metals; namely, the Kadowaki-Woods (KW) ratio [A/γ₀²=a₀ = 10⁻⁵μΩ
cm/(mJ/K mol)² (Refs. [11] and [12]) and the Wilson ratio
[R_(w)=(πk_(B)²β_(J)μ_(B)²)χ_(p)/γ₀, with R_(w)∼ 1 for a free-electron
gas and ∼2 for strongly correlated fermions [13]].

The lower inset to Fig. 4 shows C(T) of the large crystal boule plotted
as C/T versus T². C(T) can be fitted over the whole temperature range
(0.6 K<T<10 K) to the expression C=αT⁻² + γ₀T + β₃T³ + β₅T³ with α= 76
μJ K/mol, γ₀= 6.9 mJ/mol K², β₃= 0.1 mJ/mol K⁴, and β₅ = 0.7 μJ/mol K⁶.
The αT⁻² term represents the high-temperature tail of a Schottky anomaly
that invariably develops in HTC samples at low T due to either a small
concentration of isolated paramagnetic impurities, or due to nuclear
hyperfine or quadrupole splitting. The phononic β₃T³ term gives rise to
a rather elevated Θ_(D)= 550 K, though β₃ here may be made artificially
low by a T-dependent electronic term [14]. The magnitude of γ₀, however,
is very robust in our measurements [13], is comparable to previous
reports at this doping level [14], and gives a corresponding KW ratio
A/γ₀²∼5a₀. This puts nonsuperconducting LSCO well off the so-called
"universal" line for strongly correlated metals indicated in Fig. 4. A
similarly enhanced KW ratio, i.e., A/γ₀²≅5a₀, can also be inferred for
OD Tl2201

Figure 4: Kadowaki-Woods plot of A, the coefficient of the T²
resistivity, vs γ₀, the electronic specific-heat coefficient, for a
variety of strongly correlated metals (adapted from Refs. [12], [13],
and [16]). Upper inset: Magnetic susceptibility χ(T) of large boule at 5
T with B∥c (solid squares) and B∥ab (open circles). Lower inset: Low-T
specific heat of boule plotted as C/T vs T². The solid line is a fit to
the expression C=αT⁻² + γ₀T⁺β₃T³+ β₅T⁵. See text for parameter values.

[_A_ = 5.4 nΩ cm K⁻² (Ref. 3), γ₀−10 mJ/mol K² (Ref. 17)], and
indirectly for OD Pr_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄, [_A_ ∼4 nΩ cm K⁻² (Ref. 18),
γ₀−6.7 mJ/mol K² (Ref. 19)]. This observation reveals an important
aspect of the physics of the cuprates and is the central result of this
Communication. While the origin of this enhanced KW ratio is not
understood at present, it implies that in HTC’s, correlation effects
lead to an enhancement in the _e-e_ scattering intensity without an
accompanying change in the density of states. Clearly further
investigations to establish whether this a common feature of _all_ the
cuprate families are strongly recommended.

As one moves across the HTC phase diagram towards half filling, one
expects _e-e_ scattering to become even more intense. Thus, the gradual
evolution from quadratic to linear resistivity in HTC’s may simply
reflect the growing strength of _e-e_ interactions as one approaches the
Mott insulator from the metallic side. As an indication of how rapidly
the _e-e_ scattering intensity might grow, we note here that ρ_(ab) of
La_(1.85)Sr_(0.15)CuO₄ is approximately two to three times larger than
that of La_(1.87)Sr_(0.5)CuO₄ at 300 K, even though hole counting
dictates that their carrier densities differ by only a few percent.
Whilst the strength of the _e-_ph interaction may change across the
phase diagram,[20] given that _e-_ph scattering appears to give a
negligible contribution to ρ_(ab)(T) in La_(1.7)Sr_(0.5)CuO₄, an _e-_ph
origin of the linear resistivity that appears (in a narrow composition
range) around optimal doping would appear unlikely. In light of these
results, and in the absence of any other known mechanism, we can only
conclude that chronic (Umklapp) _e-e_ scattering processes dominate the
normal-state transport behavior of the cuprates across the _entire_
accessible doping range.[21] Such a scenario is consistent with the
large increase in the quasiparticle lifetime observed below T_(c).[22,
23]

Finally, let us comment briefly on the Wilson ratio R_(W). As shown in
the upper inset to Fig. 4, χ(T) displays significant anisotropy with
respect to the field orientation (believed to arise from anisotropic g
values[24]) and a strong enhancement at low T. Assuming a constant Pauli
susceptibility[25]χ_(p) and an isotropic Curie-Weiss term (with
Θ_(C)−7.5 K), we obtain an average χ_(p)−1.75×10⁻⁴ emu/mol and hence,
R_(W)∼2.0, consistent with values for other strongly correlated
metals.[13] If however, all the enhancement in χ(T) is assumed to be
intrinsic, i.e., due to an enhanced χ_(p)(T), we obtain R_(W)−3.5. We
note here that while a large enhancement in χ_(p)(T) at low T would
imply a similar enhancement in γ(T), such behavior would be difficult to
discern from our C(T) data due to the dominant phonon contribution.

In summary, detailed low-T transport and thermodynamic measurements
imply that a highly correlated FL ground state develops beyond the
superconducting dome in LSCO. The observation of an anomalously enhanced
KW ratio suggests that _e-e_ scattering in nonsuperconducting LSCO is
much more intense than previously imagined and challenges existing
claims that the ubiquitous T-linear resistivity observed in optimally
doped cuprates is a signature of (strong) _e-_ph coupling.

We acknowledge stimulating discussions with J. W. Loram, L. Taillefer,
and J. A. Wilson and experimental assistance from L. Balicas. This work
was supported by the Alliance: Franco-British Partnership Program.

## References

* [*] Present address: Laboratoire de Physique des Solides, Bat. 510,
Universite Paris-Sud 91405, Orsay, France. * [+] Present address: Centre
de Recherches sur les Tres Basses Temperatures, CNRS, BP 166, 38042
Grenoble, CEDEX 9, France. * [3] J. Orenstein and A.J. Millis, Science
**288**, 468 (2000). * [4] P.B. Allen, Nature (London) **412**, 494
(2001). * [5] C. Proust _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 147003
(2002). * [6] N.E. Hussey _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 12
(1996). * [7] A. Ino _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 094504 (2002). * [8]
A.P. Mackenzie _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7425 (1996). * [9] H.
Takagi _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2975 (1992). * [10] Note that
in a 2D FL, ρ(T)∝7²ln T, see, e.g., A.V. Chaplik, Sov. Phys. JETP
**33**, 997 (1971). * [11] R.W. Hill _et al._, Nature (London) **414**,
711 (2001). * [12] J. Paglione _et al._ (unpublished). * [13] K.
Kadowaki and S.B. Woods, Solid State Commun. **58**, 507 (1986). * [14]
K. Miyake, T. Matsura, and C.M. Varma, Solid State Commun. **71**, 1149
(1989). * [15] Y. Maeno _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **66**, 1405
(1997). * [16] J.R. Cooper and J.W. Loram, J. Phys. I **6**, 2237
(1996). * [17] Absolute accuracy in our determination of γ₀, obtained
from measuring a Cu sample of 5N purity and similar heat capacity, is
estimated to be ≈1 * [18] I.H. Inoue _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 4372
(1998). * [19] M. Wade, D.Phil, thesis, University of Cambridge, 1995. *
[20] R. Fournier _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 4720 (1998). * [21]
H. Balci _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 174510 (2002). * [22] A. Lanzara
_et al._, Nature (London) **412**, 510 (2001). * [23] N.E. Hussey, Eur.
Phys. J. B **31**, 495 (2003). * [24] R.C. Yu _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**69**, 1431 (1992). * [25] D.A. Bonn _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 11
314 (1993). * [26] I. Terasaki _et al._, Physica C **193**, 365
(1992). * [27] The combined atomic core and Van Vleck contributions in
LSCO ∼−7.5×10⁻⁵ emu/mol, D.C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 957
(1989).
