Superconductivity, magnetic order, and quadrupolar order in the filled
skutterudite system Pr1-_x_Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂

P.-C. Ho,^(1, 2) T. Yanagisawa,^(1, *) W. M. Yuhasz,^(1, †) A. A.
Dooraghi,¹ C. C. Robinson,¹ N. P. Butch,^(1, ‡) R. E. Baumbach,¹ and M.
B. Maple¹

¹Department of Physics, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
CA 92093-0319, USA

²Department of Physics, California State University, Fresno, CA
93740-8031, USA

###### Abstract

Superconductivity, magnetic order, and the high field ordered phase have
been investigated in the filled skutterudite system Pr1-_x_Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂
as a function of composition x in magnetic fields up to 9 T and at
temperatures between 50 mK and 10 K. Electrical resistivity measurements
indicate that the high field ordered phase, which has been identified
with antiferroquadrupolar order, persists to x∼ 0.5. The superconducting
critical temperature T_(c) of PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is depressed linearly with Nd
concentration to x∼ 0.55, whereas the Curie temperature $T_{\rm{FM}}$ of
NdOs₄Sb₁₂ is depressed linearly with Pr composition to (1 − x)∼ 0.45. In
the superconducting region, the upper critical field H_(c2)(x, 0) is
depressed quadratically with x in the range 0 < x ≲ 0.3, exhibits a kink
at x≈ 0.3, and then decreases linearly with x in the range
0.3 ≲ x ≲ 0.6. The behavior of H_(c2)(x, 0) appears to be a result of
pair breaking caused by the applied magnetic field and the exchange
field associated with the polarization of the Nd magnetic moments in the
superconducting state. From magnetic susceptibility measurements, the
correlations between the Nd moments in the superconducting state appear
to change from ferromagnetic in the range 0.3 ≲ x ≲ 0.6 to
antiferromagnetic in the range 0 < x ≲ 0.3. Specific-heat measurements
on a sample with x = 0.45 indicate that magnetic order may occur in the
superconducting state, as is also inferred from the depression of
H_(c2)(x, 0) with x.

pacs: 74.70.Tx, 65.40.-b, 71.27.+a + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **83**, 024511 (2011)

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of heavy-fermion (HF) superconductivity (SC) in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ in 2001,[1] this compound has attracted intense interest. It
is one of the few Pr compounds that display HF behavior [other examples
include PrInAg₂ (Ref. [2]) and PrFe₄P₁₂ (Ref. [3])], it has a high field
ordered phase (HFOP) for magnetic fields between 4.5 and 14.5 T and
temperatures below 1 K,[4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9] it has been identified with
antiferroquadrupolar order,[10] and it exhibits some type of
unconventional SC.[11, 12] The occurrence of the HFOP can be traced to
the small splitting between the ground and first excited states of the
Pr³⁺ Hund’s rule multiplet by the crystalline electric field (CEF).[11,
12] The CEF energy level scheme has been studied in detail, and it is
consistent with a nonmagnetic Γ₁ singlet ground state (0 K), a low-lying
magnetic Γ₄⁽²⁾ triplet first excited state (∼7 K), a Γ₄⁽¹⁾ magnetic
triplet excited state (∼130 K), and a nonmagnetic Γ₂₃ doublet excited
state (∼200 K) in T_(h) symmetry.[13] Although a Γ₁ ground state does
not typically give rise to HF behavior, an intriguing possibility is
that the HF state and unconventional SC originate from electric
quadrupole fluctuations in the vicinity of a quadrupolar quantum
critical point. Various measurements have also provided evidence for
multiple SC phases, two-band SC, and point nodes in the SC energy
gap.[14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20] Moreover, an internal magnetic field
was detected in the SC state by muon spin resonance (μSR)
measurements,[21] indicating an unconventional SC state and, possibly,
spin-triplet pairing mechanism of electrons.

The end member compound NdOs₄Sb₁₂ is a mean-field-type ferromagnet (FM)
with a Curie temperature $T_{\rm{FM}}\approx$ 1 K. According to the
analysis of magnetic susceptibility, electrical resistivity, and
ultrasonic attenuation data, the CEF energy level scheme of the Nd³⁺ ion
in NdOs₄Sb₁₂ is consistent with a Γ₈⁽²⁾ quartet ground state (0 K), a
Γ₈⁽¹⁾ quartet first excited state (∼220 K), and a Γ₆ doublet highest
excited state (∼590 K), all of which are magnetic in O${}_{\rm{h}}$
symmetry.[22, 23] Recent inelastic neutron-scattering measurements
support this energy level scheme with a more accurate description in
T_(h) symmetry:
$\Gamma_{67}^{(2)}(0\,{\rm{K}})-\Gamma_{67}^{(1)}(267\,{\rm{K}})-\Gamma_{5}(350\, {\rm{K}})$.[24,
25] Although the CEF ground state Γ₆₇⁽²⁾ contains quadrupole moments, no
features indicative of a HFOP have been detected in NdOs₄Sb₁₂. A large
electronic specific-heat coefficient γ∼ 520 mJ/(mol⋅K²) is inferred at
low T.[22] In addition to the typical rattling mode that is observed as
an ultrasonic dispersion near ∼ 40K in the compounds ROs₄Sb₁₂ (R = La,
Pr, Nd, and Sm), an extra rattling mode is detected only in
NdOs₄Sb₁₂.[26] Because the FM transition in NdOs₄Sb₁₂ occurs at quite a
low T, and the lattice parameter is almost the same as that of
PrOs₄Sb₁₂, the substitution of Pr with Nd in the pseudoternary system
Pr1-_x_Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ is well suited to investigating the effect of FM on
the evolution of the unconventional SC of PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

In this paper, we report the temperature versus Nd concentration T − x
phase diagram of the Pr1-_x_Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ system. We find that the SC
critical temperature T_(c) of the Pr end member compound decreases
linearly with Nd concentration x, while the Curie temperature of the FM
end member compound decreases linearly with the Pr concentration
(1 − x). The SC region extends to x≈ 0.55, where it meets the FM phase,
with possible evidence for FM ordering of the Nd moments in the SC phase
at x≈ 0.45. In order to gain information about the evolution of the HFOP
with Nd concentration, and to probe the nature of the SC state,
magnetoresistive measurements were performed in fields up to 9 T
throughout the range 0 ≲ x≲ 0.5. An analysis of the upper critical field
H_(c2)(x, 0), involving a comparison to measurements of H_(c2)(x, 0) on
the La_(3 − x)Gd_(x)In system and the multiple pair-breaking theory of
Fulde and Maki, provides evidence for magnetic ordering of the Nd ions
in the SC state for concentrations above x ≈ 0.3 and suggests that the
SC electrons of Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ are influenced by magnetic
impurities in a manner that is similar to that of the conventional SC
La₃In. On the other hand, the evolution of $H_{\rm c2}(x,0)$ might be
described in a two-band model of SC. Magnetic susceptibility
measurements indicate that the magnetic correlations of the Nd ions
change from FM for 0.3 ≲ x ≲ 1 to antiferromagnetic for 0 < x ≲ 0.3.

## II Experimental details

Single crystals of Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ were grown by the molten flux
method as described in Ref. [27]. The cubic LaFe₄P₁₂-type structure [28]
is observed by means of x-ray powder-diffraction measurements throughout
the entire doping series. The lattice parameter versus Nd concentration
x is plotted in the inset of Fig. 1, where it is apparent that the
lattice constant is minimally affected by Nd substitution, consistent
with previous measurements by Jeitschko _et al._[28]. The dc magnetic
susceptibilities $\chi_{\rm dc}(T)$ (Fig. 1) for collections of single
crystals with a total mass near 30 mg were measured using a Quantum
Design SQUID magnetometer MPMS-5.5. Together with the x-ray diffraction
data, the $\chi_{\rm dc}(T)$ data show that Nd can be substituted
continuously for all values of x: i.e., higher values of
$\chi_{\rm dc}(T)$ are observed in samples with higher x. The ac
magnetic susceptibility $\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$ measurements were performed
using home-built first-order gradiometers as pick-up coils in the
temperature range from 0.05 to 2.5 K. Each pick-up coil is coupled with
a primary coil, which supplies a 17-Hz ∼0.05 − 0.150e ac magnetic field.
Typically, ∼6 − 18 mg collections of single crystals were used for the
$\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$ measurements. Electrical resistivity measurements
ρ(T, H) were performed using a standard four-wire technique in a
transverse geometry (H⊥ current) on individual single crystals mounted
in a ³He-⁴He dilution refrigerator in magnetic fields H between 0 and 9
T. Specific-heat C(T, H) measurements were performed on a collection of
single crystals with a mass of 51.07 mg for x = 0.45 using a standard
heat-pulse technique.

## III Results

The ac magnetic susceptibility data $\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$ for various x are
displayed in Fig. 2(a), where the paramagnetic background signal at 2.5
K has been set to zero and the data for each x have been normalized to
the largest signal in either the SC or the FM transitions. When a sample
enters the SC state, $\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$ drops below the paramagnetic
background in a rounded step shape, where the SC transition temperature
$T_{\rm c}$ is defined at 50

Figure 2(b) summarizes the x dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ and $T_{\rm FM}$
determined from measurements of $\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$, ρ(T), and C(T). As x
increases, the SC transition is suppressed to lower T [at almost the
same rate as for Pr(Os_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₄Sb₁₂ (Ref. [29]) and, above
x = 0.6, only a FM signal appears. For

Figure 1: The dc molar magnetic susceptibility $\chi_{\rm dc}$ as a
function of temperature T from 2 to 8 K for single crystals of
Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ at various Nd concentrations x. Inset: Nd
concentration x dependence of the lattice parameter.

Figure 2: (a) Temperature T dependence of the ac magnetic susceptibility
$\chi_{\rm ac}$ in arbitrary units for various Nd concentrations x. (b)
SC transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$ and FM transition (Curie)
temperature $T_{\rm FM}$ vs x for Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ determined
from measurements of the ac magnetic susceptibility $\chi_{\rm ac}$,
electrical resistivity ρ, and specific heat C. Vertical bars indicate
transition widths as defined in the text. For x = 0.45, sample “a”,
which exhibits both SC and FM, $T_{\rm c}$ is defined as the onset
temperature for SC.

x = 0.45 − 0.55, features associated with both SC and FM are observed.
However, we point out the discrepancy between the two x = 0.45 samples
in Fig. 2(a), which may be caused by supercurrent surface screening in
one of the samples that obscures the FM feature in the
$\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$ measurements. On the other hand, sample dependence
can not be completely ruled out, as these batches were prepared in
slightly different ways: For batch "a," the lanthanides were pre-mixed
using an arc furnace, prior to being dissolved in the molten metal flux.
For batch "b," the lanthanides were not pre-mixed. While batch "a" shows
distinct features that are associated with both SC and FM, batch "b"
shows a SC transition with a broad tail at low T that might be related
to FM. We further note that there is only weak evidence for FM for
x = 0.5, where a broad hump is observed in $\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$ at low T.
From these observations, we infer that the appearance of SC and FM, in
this range, is highly sensitive to the growth procedure. However, it
does not appear that phase separation is responsible for the
differences. We recently performed μSR measurements for x = 0.45, 0.5,
and 0.55, for which the lanthanides were pre-mixed. For all of these
batches, the damping of the μSR signal is described by a single
exponential, as expected for a homogeneous system.[30]

The specific heat for specimens from batch "a" where x = 0.45 was
measured in order to further explore the possible coexistence of SC and
FM at this concentration (Fig. 3). A broad peak appears in C(T, H = 0)
at 0.9 K with a maximum near 0.48 K. The inset to Fig. 3 shows the
corresponding $\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$ data, where the onset of $T_{\rm c}$ at
∼0.9 K matches the beginning of the upturn of the peak in C(T, H = 0).
The FM feature then appears in $\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$ near 0.48 K, in
agreement with the maximum in C(T, H = 0). These observations support
the point of view that FM and SC features are present in both
$\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$ and C(T, H = 0) and that the broadness of the peak in
C(T, H = 0) may be due to the proximity of the two transitions. Upon
application of small magnetic fields, the peak gradually shifts to
higher T, indicating that the SC phase is suppressed and the FM phase is
enhanced with H. However, since we do not see two distinct peaks, and
these measurements were performed on a different set of samples (from
batch "a") than were used for the ac magnetic susceptibility
measurements, these data only provide circumstantial evidence for the
coexistence of SC and FM.

From measurements of ρ(T) at constant H and ρ(H) at fixed T (Fig. 4),
H_(c2)(T) curves were determined for various values of x (Fig. 5). The
data points are defined as the temperatures and fields associated with
the 50

Since the FM in NdOs₄Sb₁₂ conforms to the mean-field model, a
Curie-Weiss analysis of the Nd contribution to the magnetic
susceptibility should be a good indication of the evolution of FM in the
Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ system. The contribution to the magnetic
susceptibility caused by the

Figure 4: Electrical resistivity ρ vs magnetic field H at various
temperatures T. The rapid drop in ρ(T, H) to zero is due to the SC
transition, while the shoulders in ρ(H) above 4 T are due to the HFOP
(Ref. [4]).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of upper critical field H_(c2) for Nd
concentrations x ≤ 0.5. The horizontal and vertical bars represent the
transition widths, defined from the 10

Figure 3: Specific heat C of Pr_(0.55)Nd_(0.45)Os₄Sb₁₂ (batch “a”) vs T
at H = 0, 0.043 , 0.086, and 0.429 T. As H increases, the broad peak
moves to higher T. Inset: the corresponding $\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$ measured
on single crystals from the same batch.

Pr³⁺ ions is subtracted from $\chi_{\rm dc}(T)$ of
Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ in the following way:

$$\chi_{\rm su}(T)=\frac{\chi_{{\rm Pr}_{1-x}{\rm Nd}_{x}{\rm Os}_{4}{\rm Sb}_{12} }(T)-(1-x)\chi_{{\rm Pro}_{4}{\rm Sb}_{12}}(T)}{x}.$$
(1)

We note that, in order to apply this type of analysis, it is necessary
to assume that the contribution to $\chi_{\rm dc}(T)$ from the Pr³⁺ ions
must retain the same T dependence for all values of x. This seems like a
reasonable approximation because the nearest neighbors of the rare-earth
ions are Sb ions, which form the cages of the filled skutterudite
structure. As such, the CEF that influences each Pr ion is, to first
order, unchanged as Pr is replaced with Nd. As a result of the curvature
for 20-50 K caused by the effect of the CEF on the Nd³⁺ ions, the
Curie-Weiss analysis of $\chi_{\rm Nd}^{-1}(T)$ is only applied in the
low-T regime from 2 to 10 K by using the expression

$$\chi_{\rm su}(T)=\frac{C}{T-\Theta},$$
(2)

where C is the Curie constant and Θ is the Curie-Weiss (CW) temperature.
The fitting results are displayed in Fig. 6. The CW temperature is
positive and decreases between x = 1 and x_(cr, 2) ∼ 0.3, where it
crosses over to a negative value. The Curie constant undergoes a modest
increase with decreasing x, with a possible local maximum near
x_(cr1) ∼ 0.6. These results suggest the presence of a weak FM phase
between x ≈ 0.3 and 1 and that antiferromagnetic (AFM) correlations
appear below x ≈ 0.3.

## IV Analysis and Discussion

Taken together, these results reveal a rich phase diagram for the
Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ system, which includes SC, magnetic order, and
quadrupolar order.

Figure 7(a) shows the 0 K H − x phase diagram for
Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂. The lower boundary of the high field ordered
phase is determined from kinks in the ρ(H) isotherms (Fig. 4). The HFOP
in Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ persists to x = 0.5, above which resistivity
measurements have not yet been performed, although we note that the
features associated with the HFOP are not observed for NdOs₄Sb₁₂. The
break in slope in the lower H − x phase boundary of the HFOP seems to be
correlated with the one observed in H_(c2)(0) − x. In addition, the HFOP
persists throughout the SC phase in Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂, whereas it
vanishes beyond x ∼ 0.1 in Pr(Os_(1 − x)Ru_(x))Sb₁₂.[25] This may be due
to changes in the CEF that are larger for Ru substitution for Os than
for Nd substitution for Pr.

From the H_(c2)(x, T) data shown in Fig. 5, it can be seen that the
magnitude of H_(c2) decreases rapidly with x in the range 0 < x ≲ 0.3,
more slowly in the range 0.3 ≲ x ≲ 0.55, and appears to vanish near
x ≈ 0.6. This trend is illustrated more clearly in Fig. 7(b), which
shows the zero temperature value of the upper critical field
H_(c2)(x, 0). The H_(c2)(x, 0) data can be fit with the equations [solid
line in Fig. 7(b)]

$$H_{c2}(x,0)\approx\left\{\begin{array}{ll}2.18-19.78x^{2}&0\leq x<0.3,\\ 0.471-0.8x&0.3<x<0.6.\end{array}\right\},$$
(3)

where the x dependence of H_(c2)(0) is quadratic for x ≲ 0.3 and is
linear for 0.3 ≲ x ≲ 0.6, resulting in an obvious break

Figure 6: Nd concentration x dependence of the Curie-Weiss temperature
(left axis) Θ and the Curie constant C (right axis) of the Nd³⁺ ion in
Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ after the magnetic susceptibility
$\chi_{\rm dc}(T)$ of PrOs₄Sb₁₂ has been subtracted. The fitting range
is between 2 and 10 K. Solid and dashed lines are guides to the eye.

Figure 7: (Color online) (a) Magnetic field H − x phase diagram of
Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ at ∼0 K. (b) Zero-kelvin extrapolation of the
experimentally determined upper critical field H_(c2)(x, 0). The solid
line is a curve based on Eqs. (3). Inset: Normalized H_(c2)(x, 0) and x
with respect to H_(c2)(0, 0) and x_(cr, 1) for Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂
and La_(3 − x)Gd_(x)In. Note the difference between the curvature at low
concentration.

in slope near x ∼ 0.3. Thus, there appear to be two critical
concentrations, x_(cr2) ≈ 0.3 and x_(cr1) ≈ 0.6. Since evidence for
two-band SC has been observed in PrOs₄Sb₁₂,[18, 19] this result could
indicate that Nd substitution has a different effect on the SC of the
different bands. If so, then this empirical formula may suggest that one
channel has a critical concentration x_(cr1) ∼ 0.6, for which H_(c2) has
a linear x dependence over the entire SC region with a maximum value of
 ∼ 0.471T, while the other channel has a critical concentration
x_(cr2) ∼ 0.3 and only exists in the region 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3 with a maximum
value of H_(c2) ∼ 2.2T.

In order to explore an alternative route to analyzing the H_(c2)(x, 0)
data, we turn to the multiple pair-breaking theory of Fulde and
Maki:[31, 32, 33] For example, this theory has previously been used to
analyze the H_(c2)(x, T) curves for the system La_(3 − x)Gd_(x)In, which
is formed by substituting Gd impurity ions that carry localized magnetic
moments into the singlet BCS SC La₃In.[31] The H_(c2)(x, 0) data in the
La_(3 − x)Gd_(x)In system reveal that H_(c2)(x, 0) exhibits a rapid
linear decrease with x in the lower concentration region and a slower
linear depression with x in the higher concentration region. Remarkably,
the H_(c2)(x, 0) curve for Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ is quite similar to
that of La_(3 − x)Gd_(x)In, as shown in the inset of Fig. 7 where the
normalized upper critical field data H_(c2)(x, 0)/H_(c2)(0, 0) for both
systems are plotted versus the normalized concentration x/x_(cr1). Here,
H_(c2)(0, 0) is the 0-K H_(c2) of the parent compound without magnetic
substituents (i.e., PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and La₃In), and x_(cr1) is the
concentration where SC disappears. H_(c2)(0) ∼ 2.25 T for PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and
∼6.8 T for La₃In, while x_(cr1) ∼ 0.6 for Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ and
∼0.076 for La_(3 − x)Gd_(x)In. The ratio of x_(cr1) of
Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ to that of La_(3 − x)Gd_(x)In is ∼7.6, or ∼23 if
the magnetic substituent is expressed as the percentage of the overall
rare-earth concentration in each compound. For 0 ≤ x/x_(cr1) ≲ 0.5, the
suppression of H_(c2)(x, 0)/H_(c2)(0, 0) in Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ is
much less than that of La_(3 − x)Gd_(x)In, but for 0.5 ≤ x/x_(cr1) ≤ 1,
both systems have a similar linear monotonic suppression. Interestingly,
a break in curvature occurs at x/x_(cr1) ∼ 0.5 for both systems. These
similarities are surprising, given that the SC state for PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is
thought to be unconventional.

The generalized Abrikosov-Gorkov (AG) theory of Fulde and Maki includes
three effects that can break Cooper pairs in a BCS SC in the presence of
magnetic moments and magnetic field: (1) spin polarization of conduction
electrons by an applied magnetic field, (2) spin-flip scattering of
conduction electrons by magnetic moments, and (3) spin polarization of
conduction electrons by the exchange field generated by the applied
field or magnetic order mediated by the Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida
(RKKY) interaction between the magnetic moments. The generalized AG
formula that takes these three effects into account has the following
form:

$$\ln\left(\frac{T_{c}}{T_{c0}}\right)-\Psi\left[\frac{1}{2}-0.14\left(\frac{T _{c0}}{T_{c}}\right)\left(\sum_{i=1}^{3}\frac{\alpha_{i}}{\alpha_{cr,i}}\right) \right]-\Psi\left(\frac{1}{2}\right)=0,$$
(4)

where the SC depairing parameters are denoted as α_(i), their critical
values as α_(cr, i), and T_(c0) is the SC transition temperature of the
parent compound in zero applied magnetic field. Equation (5) describes
the total pair-breaking effect in the magnetically substituted SC
system, which is equivalent to the pair-breaking effect due only to the
applied field on the parent compound:

$$\sum_{i=1}^{3}\frac{\alpha_{i}}{\alpha_{cr,i}}=\frac{H_{c2}(x,T)}{H_{c2}(0,0) }+\frac{x}{x_{cr}}+\frac{P}{P_{cr}}=\frac{H_{c2}(0,T)}{H_{c2}(0,0)},$$
(5)

where x is the concentration of substituted magnetic ions, H_(c2)(x, T)
is the upper critical field for concentration x and temperature T, and P
is the Pauli polarization term corresponding to the effect of the
magnetic exchange field on the conduction electrons. Following this
argument, the temperature dependence of the upper critical field for
concentration x can be expressed as

$$H_{c2}(x,T)\approx H_{c2}(0,T)-H_{c2}(0,0)\left(\frac{x}{x_{cr}}+\frac{P}{P_{cr }}\right).$$
(6)

The Pauli polarization term
$P=\tau_{\rm so}(x\Im\langle J_{z}\rangle)^{2}$, where $\tau_{\rm so}$
is the spin-orbit scattering time, ℑ is the s-f exchange interaction
parameter, and ⟨J_(z)⟩ is the average value of the total angular
momentum along the direction of the exchange field, which is defined as
the z direction. ⟨J_(z)⟩ has a Brillouin-function dependence on T but
approaches a constant value as T → 0 K, which is proportional to the
magnetic substituent’s "ground-state" magnetic moment. To simplify the
analysis, we focus on the behavior at 0 K. In this case, Eqs. (5) and
(6) are reduced to

$$H_{c2}(x,0)=H_{c2}(0,0)\left[1-\left(\frac{x}{x_{cr}}+\frac{\tau_{\rm so}\Im^{2} J^{2}}{P_{cr}}x^{2}\right)\right].$$
(7)

In the low-concentration regime, H_(c2)(x, 0) of La_(3 − x)Gd_(x)In has
a linear x dependence, but H_(c2)(x, 0) of Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ shows
a more quadratic behavior. The linear dependence of x in the
low-concentration region of La_(3 − x)Gd_(x)In indicates that the Gd
magnetic moments are in the dilute region and no magnetic ordering has
developed, so the Pauli polarization contribution is negligible. This
suggests that magnetic correlations may be significant in the low-x
region for Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂. According to the Curie-Weiss
analysis, Θ is negative for x ≲ 0.3, indicating that AFM correlations
may be dominant in this concentration range and that the internal
magnetic field found in the SC state is associated with AFM order. Thus,
the SC in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ may be influenced by both AFM and FM correlations
that may have comparable strengths over certain parts of the phase
diagram. It is possible that the weak suppression of H_(c2)(0) versus x
in the range of x from 0 to x_(cr, 2) ≈ 0.3 is due to the combination of
pair breaking by the applied field and the AFM exchange field, while the
suppression of H_(c2)(0) versus x in the range x_(cr, 2) ≈ 0.3 to
x_(cr, 1) ≈ 0.6 could be primarily due to the FM exchange field,
although the curvature of H_(c2)(0) in this region is not in agreement
with the generalized Abrikosov-Gorkov theory of Fulde and Maki.

## V Summary

The effect of magnetic moments on the normal and SC states of PrOs₄Sb₁₂
has been investigated in the Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ system. In the
normal state, the feature associated with the HFOP is clearly observed
up to x = 0.5. The kink in the lower phase boundary of the HFOP seems to
correlate with a similar feature in H_(c2)(x, 0). The HFOP is more
robust against substituent concentrations x in Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂
than in the Pr(Os_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₄Sb₁₂ system. The Curie-Weiss analysis
for T between 2 and 10 K suggests that FM exists for 0.3 ≲ x ≲ 1 and
that AFM correlations are important in the range x ≲ 0.3.

In the SC state, features associated with FM were observed for
x = 0.45 − 0.55, although more work is needed to verify the coexistence
of SC and FM in this region. Quadratic and linear dependences of x were
found in H_(c2)(0) for 0 ≤ x ≲ 0.3 and 0.3 ≲ x ≲ 0.6, respectively,
which indicates that there are two critical concentrations in the
Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ system: x_(cr, 1) ∼ 0.6 and x_(cr, 2) ∼ 0.3. The
break in slope for H_(c2)(x, 0) may be related to the existence of two
bands of SC electrons in PrOs₄Sb₁₂, which are affected by Nd
substitution differently. On the other hand, the multiple pair-breaking
effect could also explain the behavior in H_(c2)(x, 0), where x_(cr, 1)
and x_(cr, 2) are associated with the suppression of SC in the FM and
AFM correlation regimes, respectively.

###### Acknowledgements.

Research at UCSD was supported by the US Department of Energy under
Grant No. DE-FG02-04ER46105 for single-crystal growth and
characterization and the National Science Foundation under Grant No. DMR
0802478 for low-temperature measurements. Research at California State
University, Fresno, was supported by the Research Corporation under the
CCSA Grant No. 7669. Research at Hokkaido University was supported by a
Grant-in-Aid for Young Scientists (B) from MEXT, Japan.

## References

* [1] E. D. Bauer, N. A. Frederick, P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, and M. B.
Maple, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 100506(R) (2002). * [2] A. Yatskar, W. P.
Beyermann, R. Movshovich, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**,
3637 (1996). * [3] Y. Aoki, T. Namiki, T. D. Matsuda, K. Abe, H.
Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 064446 (2002). * [4] P.-C.
Ho, N. A. Frederick, V. S. Zapf, E. D. Bauer, T. D. Do, M. B. Maple, A.
D. Christianson, and A. H. Lacerda, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 180508(R)
(2003). * [5] R. Vollmer, A. Faisst, C. Pfleiderer, H. v. Lohneysen, E.
D. Bauer, P.-C. Ho, V. Zapf, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**,
057001 (2003). * [6] N. Oeschler, P. Gegenwart, F. Weickert, I. Zerce,
P. Thalmeier, F. Steglich, E. D. Bauer, N. A. Frederick, and M. B.
Maple, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 235108 (2004). * [7] Y. Aoki, T. Namiki, S.
Ohsaki, S. R. Saha, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**,
2098 (2002). * [8] T. Tayama, T. Sakakibara, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and
H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72**, 1516 (2003). * [9] C. R. Rotundu, H.
Tsujii, Y. Takano, B. Andraka, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **92**, 037203 (2004). * [10] M. Kohgi _et al._, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **72**, 1002 (2003). * [11] M. B. Maple, N. A. Frederick, P.
C. Ho, W. M. Yuhasz, and T. Yanagisawa, J. Supercond. Novel Magn.
**19**, 299 (2006). * [12] Y. Aoki, H. Sugawara, H. Harima, and H. Sato,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 209 (2005). * [13] E. A. Goremychkin, R.
Osborn, E. D. Bauer, M. B. Maple, N. A. Frederick, W. M. Yuhasz, F. M.
Woodward, and J. W. Lynn, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 157003 (2004). * [14]
K. Izawa, Y. Nakajima, J. Goryo, Y. Matsuda, S. Osaki, H. Sugawara, H.
Sato, P. Thalmeier, and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 117001
(2003). * [15] M.-A. Measson, D. Braithwaite, G. Lapertot, J.-P. Brison,
J. Flouquet, P. Bordet, H. Sugawara, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**77**, 134517 (2008). * [16] M. E. McBriarty, P. Kumar, G. R. Stewart,
and B. Andraka, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **21**, 385701 (2009). * [17]
K. Grube, S. Drobnik, C. Pfleiderer, H. v. Lohneysen, E. D. Bauer, and
M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 104503 (2006). * [18] M.-A. Measson,
D. Braithwaite, J. Flouquet, G. Seyfarth, J. P. Brison, E. Lhotel, C.
Paulsen, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 064516 (2004). *
[19] G. Seyfarth, J. P. Brison, M.-A. Measson, J. Flouquet, K. Izawa, Y.
Matsuda, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 107004
(2005). * [20] E. E. M. Chia, M. B. Salamon, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 247003 (2003). * [21] Y. Aoki _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **91**, 067003 (2003). * [22] P.-C. Ho _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**72**, 094410 (2005). * [23] T. Yanagisawa, W. M. Yuhasz, P.-C. Ho, M.
B. Maple, H. Watanabe, T. Ueno, Y. Nemoto, and T. Goto, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **310**, 223 (2007). * [24] K. Kuwahara, M. Takagi, K. Iwasa, S.
Itobe, D. Kikuchi, Y. Aoki, M. Kohgi, H. Sato, and H. Sugawara, Phys. B
(Amsterdam) **403**, 903 (2008). * [25] K. Takegahara, H. Harima, and A.
Yanase, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 1190 (2001). * [26] T. Yanagisawa,
P.-C. Ho, W. M. Yuhasz, M. B. Maple, Y. Yasumoto, H. Watanabe, Y.
Nemoto, and T. Goto, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 074607 (2008). * [27] E.
D. Bauer, A. Slerbarski, E. J. Freeman, C. Sirvent, and M. B. Maple, J.
Phys. Condens. Matter **13**, 4495 (2001). * [28] W. Jeitschko and D.
Braun, Acta Crystallogr. Sect. B **33**, 3401 (1977). * [29] P.-C. Ho,
N. P. Butch, V. S. Zapf, T. Yanagisawa, N. A. Frederick, S. K. Kim, W.
M. Yuhasz, M. B. Maple, J. B. Betts, and A. H. Lacerda, J. Phys.
Condens. Matter **20**, 215226 (2008). * [30] P.-C. Ho, L. Shu, S. Zhao,
J. M. Mackie, A. A. Dooraghi, T. Yanagisawa, D. E. MacLaughlin, and M.
B. Maple (unpublished). * [31] J. E. Crow, R. P. Guertin, and R. D.
Parks, Phys. Rev. Lett. **19**, 77 (1967). * [32] P. Fulde and K. Maki,
Phys. Lett. **141**, 275 (1966). * [33] M. B. Maple, in _Magnetism: A
Treatise on Modern Theory and Materials_, edited by H. Suhl (Academic,
New York, 1973), Vol. V, pp. 289-325.
