# Effect of pressure on spin fluctuations and superconductivity in
heavy-fermion UPt3

J. O. Willis, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk

Materials Science and Technology Division, Los Alamos National
Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

A. de Visser, J. J. M. Franse, and A. Menovsky

Nanawkundig Laboratorium der Universitet van Amsterdam,
Valckeniersstraat 65, 1018 XE Amsterdam, The Netherlands

###### Abstract

We have determined the effect of hydrostatic pressure on the
susceptibility, on the T2 temperature dependence of the spin-fluctuation
resistivity, and on superconductivity in UPt3. The spin-fluctuation
temperature T_(s), derived from the slope of resistivity versus T2, is
used within a Fermi-liquid picture to calculate the susceptibility x at
T = 0 K. The depression of this calculated x with pressure agrees with
the directly measured value d lnx/d_P_ = - 24 Mbar-1. Both the
superconducting transition temperature T_(e) and the initial slope of
the upper critical field also decrease under pressure. We find that d
ln_T__e_/d_P_ = - 25 Mbar-1 and speculate upon correlations between x
and T_(e).

In the uranium-platinum series superconductivity occurs1-3 in the
compound that shows the most pronounced spin-fluctuation phenomena,
UPt3. The neighboring phases, UPt2 and UPt5, exhibit weaker
spin-fluctuation effects in specific-heat4 and resistivity5 measurements
and do not show, so far, any sign of a superconducting state. UPt3 can
be classified as a heavy-fermion superconductor, i.e., a system that
behaves as a Fermi liquid with a large effective mass (_m_ = 200_m_e),
like CeCu2Si2 (Ref. 6) and UBe13.7 The unusual coexistence of spin
fluctuations and superconductivity has led Stewart, Fisk, Willis, and
Smith1 to speculate on _p_-wave superconductivity in UPt3, in analogy to
1${}^{\rm th}$He. Therefore, it is an intriguing question whether spin
fluctuations and superconductivity are intimately connected in UPt3.

Footnote 1: The spin fluctuations are usually assumed to be the same as
the spin fluctuations.

High-pressure experiments on the resistivity of UPt3 have been performed
by De Visser, Franse, and Menovsky5 and by Wire, Thompson, and Fisk6 at
pressures up to 4.2 and 18 kbar, respectively. De Visser _et al._
pointed out that only at approaching 1.4 K from higher temperatures is a
T2 dependence observed, as predicted by spin-fluctuation theories.7 The
coefficient of this term and its pressure dependence are determined in
their analysis by the slope of the r vs T2 curve at the lowest
temperatures. For current directions in either the basal plane or along
the hexagonal axis, a substantial depression of this coefficient at 4.2
kbar is observed. From both experiments one must conclude that a strong
depression of the spin-fluctuation contribution to the resistivity takes
place at low temperature.

To examine in greater detail the interplay of spin fluctuations and
superconductivity in UPt3 and its Fermi-liquid nature, we have performed
high-pressure studies on the susceptibility, on the superconducting
transition temperature T_(e), and on the upper critical field near
T_(e).

The magnetization studies (performed in Amsterdam) made use of an
induction method. A polycrystalline UPt3 sample (cylinder, _ph_ = 6 mm,
1 - 8 mm), prepared by arc melting and casting of the material into a
water-cooled crucible, was placed in a diamagnetic Cu-Be cell and moved
between the centers of two oppositely wound pickup coils. Solid helium
served as the pressure transmitting medium. Hydrostatic conditions were
preserved as well as possible by freezing the helium under constant
pressure conditions. The detection limit of this magnetometer is 5 x
10-6 A m2. For the UPt3 sample, the pressure-independent diamagnetic
contribution to the induction voltage amounted to 11

Both T_(e) (midpoint) and the slope of the upper critical field near
T_(e),
$B_{\rm d}^{2} = - \partial B_{\rm d}\partial T\left| \right._{T_{\rm e}}$,
were determined resistively by a standard four-terminal ac technique
with the current direction along the hexagonal c axis. These
measurements were performed at Los Alamos on a twinned crystal of UPt3
that was grown in a bismuth flux and subsequently annealed at 1200 degC
for 40 h and 1100 degC for an additional 20 h. Pressures up to 19 kbar
were generated in a Cu-Be self-clamping cell, modified slightly from the
one described in detail elsewhere.10 Its principle of operation is
identical to our earlier design. The pressure at low temperatures was
deduced from the inductively measured T_(e) of a high-purity tin
manometer. Great care was taken to ensure thermal equilibration between
the sample and the temperature-sensing thermometer, located outside the
high-pressure volume.

Magnetization curves of polycrystalline UPt3 at 4.2 K are shown in Fig.
1 for two different pressures: 1 bar and 4.5 kbar. The value for the
relative pressure derivative of the susceptibility, ∂ln x/∂P, as derived
from the data of Fig. 1, is - 24 Mbar-1. The zero-pressure
susceptibility derived from these data is 104 x 10-9 m3/(mole formula
units) and is larger than the value expected for a polycrystalline
sample with random orientation of the crystallites, pointing to
preferential orientation in this sample. [The susceptibility in the
hexagonal plane is 110 x 10-9 m3/(mole formula units) at 4.2 K (Ref.
4).]

The temperature dependence of the magnetic moment of UPt3, in a field of
5.3 T, has been measured between 4.2 and 40 K, at zero pressure and at
4.5 kbar. From these data the temperature dependence of the
susceptibility has been determined and, in particular, the temperature
T_(m) where the maximum in the susceptibility occurs and its pressure
dependence δT_(m)/δP (see Fig. 2). The temperature T_(m) shifts towards
higher temperatures with a rate of 2 K over 4.5 kbar, resulting in a
relative pressure dependence δln T_(m)/δP of 25 Mbar⁻¹, which is almost
equal to the value for δln χ/δP. Therefore, the product χT_(m) may be
considered as pressure independent.

The resistivity versus temperature data for UPt₃ up to 2 K, plotted on a
log-log scale, yield a slope of 2.0 ± 0.1 for each of the applied
pressures. Therefore, we display the resistivity versus T² in Fig. 3.
Clear deviations from T² behavior were apparent for temperatures above
about 1.5 K, with the resistivity increasing less rapidly than T². The
(extrapolated) residual resistivity is independent of pressure at the 1

Figure 3 also shows the systematic decrease of the slope δρ/δT² with
pressure. In the spin-fluctuation model of Kaiser and Doniach,⁹ the
resistivity for T < T_(s), the spin-fluctuation temperature, is
proportional to ⟨T/T_(s)⟩². The determination of T_(s) is not clear cut
for UPt³, as discussed by Wire _et al._Wire _et al._ (2009) However, in
our analysis, it is only necessary to determine relative changes in
T_(s) and not absolute values. We choose the peak in susceptibility
(Fig. 2) as representative of T_(s), i.e., T_(s)(P = 1 bar) = 17.6 K.
Therefore, employing ρ = ρ₀ + A (T/T_(s))², we calculate A at 1 bar, and
assuming that A is not a function of pressure, we then calculate
T_(s)(P) from the data. The results are shown in Fig. 4. The relative
pressure change of T_(s), δln T_(s)/δP, is 25 Mbar⁻¹. At low
temperatures, a Fermi liquid, such as UPt₃, is expected to obey the
relation χ(T = 0) − C/T_(s), where C is an appropriate Curie constant.
This implies⁸ that δln χ/δP =  − δln T_(s)/δP, so that the effect of
pressure on the spin-fluctuation resistivity of UPt₃ is δln χ/δP =  − 25
Mbar⁻¹. This agrees very satisfactorily with the direct measurement of
the susceptibility at 1 bar and 4.5 kbar on polycrystalline UPt₃
(δln χ/δP =  − 24 Mbar⁻¹) discussed above. Wire _et al._Wire _et al._
(2009) report similarly good agreement

Figure 3: Resistance vs temperature squared for single-crystal UPt₃.
Pressures were applied in the order: 1 bar, 10.2 kbar, 19.1 kbar, and
4.1 kbar. The straight lines are a guide to the eye.

Figure 2: dc susceptibility as a function of temperature at different
pressures for polycrystalline UPt₃. The arrows indicate T_(m) the
temperature for which the susceptibility maximum occurs.

between X derived from T_(s) and X measured directly for the
spin-fluctuation system UA1₂ under pressure. These same authors report a
somewhat larger value for θln X/∂P of − 30 Mbar⁻¹ for UPt₃ from c-axis
resistivity down to 1 K. We believe that the present value of −(24 to
25) Mbar⁻¹ represents a more accurate result than was previously
attainable.

We now discuss the effects of pressure on superconductivity in UPt₃.
Figure 3 shows the depression of T_(e) with pressure; the results are
replotted in Fig. 4. The relative depression of T_(e) with pressure
θln T_(e)/∂P is −26 Mbar⁻¹. The initial slope of the upper critical
field B_(ϵ2)^(′) is also depressed with pressure at a relative rate of
−28 Mbar⁻¹. Based on our data to 19 kbar, both T_(e) and B_(ϵ2)^(′)
extrapolate to zero at 37 ± 1 kbar, corresponding to a volume change
Δ V/V₀ of −0.018.[11]

We have analyzed the effect of pressure on the electronic specific-heat
coefficient γ using our measured values of T_(e), B_(ϵ2)^(′), and ρ and
the equations derived from the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory
found in Orlando, NeNiff, Foner, and Besley.[12] Assuming the dirty
limit (mean free path l much shorter than the superconducting coherence
length ξ₀) and using the measured γ value ( = 1.06 × 10⁴J/m³ K²), a
value for B_(ϵ2)^(′) of 0.34 T is obtained which is only about 5

We note finally that

$$\theta\ln{X/\partial P}\approx\theta\ln{T_{e}/\partial P}\,(\,=\,\theta\ln{B_{ \epsilon 2}^{\prime}/\partial P}\,)\approx-\,25\,\,{\rm Mbar}^{-1}\,\,\,\,.$$

This is suggestive of a correlation between the large susceptibility
(spin-fluctuation phenomenon) and superconductivity in UPt₃. Although a
decrease in T_(e) with pressure is not unusual, Tachiki, Maekawa, and
Takahashi[14] suggest that a depression of T_(e) should occur if the
superconductivity is not of the conventional BCS (S = 0) type, but
rather is of a type enhanced by spin fluctuations. We suggest that this
may be the case for UPt₃. We note that for other heavy-fermion systems
T_(e) has been observed to increase with pressure in CeCu₂Si₂ (Ref.
[15]) and to decrease with pressure in UBe₁₀.[16] Furthermore, Valls and
Tesanovic[17] predict, within a Fermi-liquid model in the limit of large
effective electronic mass, that T_(e) should be proportional to T_(e),
or inversely proportional to χ, which is the opposite of what we find
here for UPt₃. We can only comment that the different pressure
dependences observed experimentally for these three heavy-fermion
systems are as perplexing as are the different theoretical predictions.

In summary, we have performed resistivity and susceptibility
measurements on single-crystal and polycrystalline UPt₃ under pressures
up to 19 kbar. Superconductivity and spin fluctuations are both found to
be strongly depressed by pressure with

$$\theta\ln{T_{e}/\partial P}\approx\theta\ln{X/\partial P}\,=\,-\,25\,\,{\rm Mbar }^{-1}\,\,\,\,.$$

The correlations between T_(e) and χ(0) are highly suggestive of a
non-BCS-type pairing mechanism.

The work performed in Amsterdam was part of the research program of the
Stichting FOM (The Dutch Foundation for Fundamental Research of Matter).
The research at Los Alamos National Laboratory was performed under the
auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy.

## References

* [1] G. R. Stewart, Z. Fisk, J. O. Willis, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **52**, 679 (1984). * [2] A. de Visser, J. J. M. Franse, A.
Menovsky, and T. T. M. Palstra, _Proceedings of the Fourth General
Conference of the Condensed Matter Division of the European Physical
Society, The Hague, 1984_ (Physica B (in press)); J. Phys. F **14**,
L191 (1984). * [3] T. T. M. Palstra, P. H. Kes, J. A. Mydosh, A. de
Visser, J. J. M. Franse, and A. Menovsky, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 2986
(1984). * [4] P. H. Frings, J. J. M. Franse, F. R. de Boer, and A.
Menovsky, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **31**- * [19] Mennovsky, J. Phys. F (to
be published)]. * [20] T. P. Orlando, E. J. McNiff, Jr., S. Foner, and
M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545 (1979). * [21] X. C. Lim and J.
D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 6053 (1982); K. C. Lim, J. D.
Thompson, and G. W. Webb, _ibid._**27**, 2781 (1983). * [22] M. Tachiki,
S. Maekawa, and S. Takahashi, Phys. Rev. B **31**, 228 (1984). * [23] B.
Bellarbi, A. Benoit, D. Jaccard, J. M. Mignot, and H. F. Braun, Phys.
Rev. B **30**, 1182 (1984). * [24] J. W. Chen, S. E. Lambert, M. B.
Maple, Z. Fisk, J. L. Smith, and H. R. Ott, in _Proceedings of the 17th
International Conference on Low Temperature Physics_, edited by U.
Eckern, A. Schmid, W. Weber, and H. Wahl (North-Holland, Amsterdam,
1984), p. 325. * [25] O. T. Valls and Zlatko Tesanovic, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**53**, 1497 (1984).
