# BCS-like superconductivity in MgCNi3

J.-Y. Lin,¹ P. L. Ho,² H. L. Huang,² P. H. Lin,¹ Y.-L. Zhang,³ R.-C.
Yu,³ C.-Q. Jin,³ and H. D. Yang²

¹Institute of Physics, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu 300,
Taiwan, Republic of China

²Department of Physics, National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung 804,
Taiwan, Republic of China

³Institute of Physics, Center for Condensed Matter Physics and Beijing
High Pressure Research Center, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.O. Box
603, Beijing 100080, People’s Republic of China

26 September 2002; published 4 February 2003

###### Abstract

The low-temperature specific heat C(T, H) of the superconductor MgCNi3
has been measured in detail. ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) = 1.97 is estimated from the
anomaly at T_(c) . At low temperatures, the electronic contribution in
the superconducting state follows C_(∞)/γ_(n)T_(c) ≈ 7.96
exp(-1.46T_(c)/T). The magnetic-field dependence of γ(H) is found to be
linear with respect to H. T_(c) estimated from the McMillan formula
agrees well with the observed value. All the specific-heat data appear
to be consistent with each other within the moderate-coupling BCS
context. It is amazing that such a superconductor unstable to
ferromagnetism behaves so conventionally. The Debye temperature Θ_(D) =
287 K and the normal state γ_(n) = 33.6 mJ/mol K² are determined for the
present sample.

2003 10.1103/PhysRevB.67.052501 10.

manifestation of the paramagnetic contribution like the Schottky
anomaly. The normal state C_(n)(T) = γ_(n)T + $C_{\rm lattice}(T)$ was
extracted from H = 8 T data between 4 and 10 K by C(T, H = 8
T$)\!=\!\gamma_{n}T\!+\!C_{\rm lattice}(T)$ +
$nC_{\rm Schottky}(g_{n}\mu H/k_{B}T)$, where the third term is a
two-level Schottky anomaly.
$C_{\rm lattice}(T)\!=\!\beta T^{3}\!+\!\delta T^{5}$ represents the
phonon contribution. It is found that γ_(n) = 33.6 mJ/mol K². This value
of γ_(n), with the electron-phonon coupling constant l estimated below,
requires a higher band N(E_(F)) than most of those reported from
calculations.[3, 6, 13, 14]Θ_(D) derived from $C_{\rm lattice}$ is 287
K, impressively lower than that (450 K) of Ni. This low Θ_(D),
nevertheless, is close to the estimate based on the softening of the Ni
lattice,[14] which could enhance the electron-phonon interaction. The
concentration of paramagnetic centers can be estimated to be the order
of 10⁻³. With a dominant content of Ni in this compound, this number is
understandable.

To elucidate superconductivity in MgCNi₃, it is of interest to derive
$\Delta C(T)\!=\!C(T)\!-\!C_{\rm lattice}(T)\!-\!\gamma_{n}T$. The
resultant ΔC(T)/T at H = 0 is shown in Fig. 2(a). By the conservation of
entropy around the transition, the dimensionless specific jump at
T_(c)ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) = 1.97 ± 0.10 as shown in Fig. 2(b). This value of
ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) is very close to that in Ref. [1], though with a sharper
transition in the present work. If the relation of
ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) = (1.43 + 0.942λ² − 0.195λ³) (Ref. [15]) is adapted as was
in Ref. [1], l is estimated to be 0.83. Both values of ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) and
l suggest that MgCNi₃ is a moderate-coupling superconductor rather than
weak coupling. To compare ΔC(T) of MgCNi₃ with a BCS one, ΔC(T)/T from
the BCS model with 2Δ/kT_(c) = 4 was plotted as the solid line in Fig.
2(a). There was no attempt to fit data with the BCS model. The choice of
2Δ/kT_(c) = 4 instead of the weak-coupling value 3.53 was somewhat
arbitrary and was to account for the larger ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) = 1.97 than
the weak-limit one 1.43. However, it is noted that the data can already
be well described by the solid line, except for the low-temperature part
of data which suffer contamination from the magnetic contribution. With
this very magnetic contribution, it is difficult to check the
thermodynamic consistency. Nevertheless, if the data below 3 K are
replaced by the solid line in Fig. 2(a), entropy is conserved, as shown
in the inset of Fig. 2(a). It is worth noting that ΔC(T)/T of MgCNi₃ is
_qualitatively_ different from that of Sr₂RuO₄, which is considered a
p-wave superconductor.[16]

To further examine $C_{\rm es}\!\equiv\!C(T,H)\!-\!C_{\rm lattice}(T)$,
$C_{\rm es}(T)/\gamma_{n}T_{c}$ vs. T_(c)/T for H = 0 is plotted in Fig.
3. The fit of data between 2 and 4.5 K leads to
$C_{\rm es}/\gamma_{n}T_{c}\!=\!7.96$×exp (−1.46T_(c)/T). Both the
values of the prefactor and the coefficient in the exponent are typical
of BCS superconductors. Since the magnetic contribution would make
$C_{\rm es}$ overestimated at low temperatures, the value of 1.46 in the
exponent is probably slightly underestimated. This is in contrast to the
case of MgB₂, in which $C_{\rm es}\!\propto\!\exp(-0.38T_{c}/T)$.[12,
17] This small coefficient in the exponent for MgB₂ is usually
attributed to a multigap order parameter.

In magnetic fields,
$C_{\rm es}(T,H)\!\approx\!C_{\rm es}(T,H\!=\!0)+\gamma(H)T$.[18, 19]
For a gapped superconductor, γ(H) is expected to be proportional to
H.[20] For nodal superconductivity, γ(H) ∝ H^(1/2) is predicted.[21]
Actually, γ(H) of cuprate superconductors has been intensively studied
in this context.[22] To try to figure out γ(H) in MgCNi₃, C(T, H)/T vs H
at T = 0.6 K and δC(T, H)/T  ( = C(T, H)/T − C(T, 0)/T) vs., H at 2 K
are shown in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b), respectively. Data with H ≈ 4 T are
presented as solid circles and shown in Fig. 4(a). The data clearly
follow a straight line passing through the origin, which suggests
δγ × H. The magnetic contribution is rather significant for low-field
data at 0.6 K. The open circles represent data of C/T corrected with the
Schottky term estimated from the previously mentioned fitting. (The
correction is negligible at high fields.) Apparently, the Schottky
anomaly is only an approximation and cannot totally account for the
magnetic contribution at 0.6 K, especially for H ≈ 0.5 T. At T = 2 K,
the magnetic contribution is not so significant as at 0.6 K. Thus δC/T
in all magnetic fields are shown as the solid circles. As seen in Fig.
4(b), all high-field data can be well described by a straight line,
again indicating a linear H dependence of γ. Data below H = 1 T

Figure 2: (a) ΔC(T)/T vs T. The data are presented as the solid circles.
The solid line is the BCS ΔC(T)/T with 2Δ/kT_(c) = 4. The deviation at
low temperatures from the solid line is due to the magnetic contribution
of a small amount of the paramagnetic centers in the sample. Inset:
entropy difference ΔS by integration of ΔC(T)/T according to the data
above 3 K and the solid line below 3 K. (b) The dashed lines are
determined by the conservation of entropy around the anomaly to estimate
ΔC/T_(c) at T_(c).

begin to deviate from a linear behavior due to flux line interactions at
low H[18]. The straight line passes through the origin in Fig. 4(a),
which implies that the flux line interactions are relatively
insignificant compared to the core contribution at very low
temperatures. This trend was also observed in Ref. [18]. The slopes
d γ/dH in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) are 3.17 ± 0.02 and 3.15 ± 0.08 mJ/mol K²
T, respectively. These identical values at different temperatures
suggest that the relation δγ ∝ H is genuine. Using
γ(H) = γ_(n)(H/H_(c2)), H_(c2) = 10.6 T for the present sample, which is
close to that estimated from dH_(c2)/dT_(c) determined by both ρ and C
measurements according to the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH)
formula.[23] This value is smaller than what was found in Ref. [10],
probably due to different carbon contents, since T_(c) of the present
sample is also lower than that in Ref. [10]. On the other hand, one
could try to fit the data in Fig. 4(b) by δγ(H) ∝ H^(1/2). The results
are represented by the dashed line in Fig. 4(b). Apparently, the data
cannot be well described in this manner, in contrast to the nice
δγ(H) ∝ H^(1/2) relation found in cuprates.[24; 25; 26; 27; 28; 29; 30;
31; 32] A phenomenological fit of δC/T(H) ∝ H^(n) leads to n = 0.73 [the
dotted line in Fig. 4(b)], similar to that in the dirty limit
Y(Ni_(1 − y)Pt_(y))₂C.[33]

Due to the proximity of ferromagnetism, the superconducting order
parameter in MgCNi₃ was expected to be a p-wave superconductor in Ref.
[3] and others. However, it is noted that s-wave superconductivity in
the weak ferromagnetism phase was once proposed.[3] Since there is no
evidence for nodal lines of order parameter from the specific-heat data,
nature must have chosen a gapped order parameter like x + iy if there
was p-wave superconductivity in MgCNi₃. To further investigate this
issue, T_(c) can be estimated by the McMillan formula
T_(c) = (ℏ ω_(B)/1.45)× exp{−1.04(1 + λ)/[λ − μ * (1 + 0.62λ)]}, where
μ* characterizes the electron-electron repulsion.[34] Taking the Fermi
energy E_(F)≈ 6 eV from the energy band calculations,[3, 36]μ* is
estimated to be 0.15, and T_(c) = 8.5 K is estimated by the above
McMillan formula with λ = 0.83. This impressive agreement with the
observed T_(c) implies that the magnetic coupling strength
$\lambda_{\rm spin}$, if it existed, would be very small. This is
consistent with the conclusion reported in Ref. [13]. For comparison,
$\lambda_{\rm spin}$ = 0.1 would probably lower T_(c) to 3.7 K. Should
such a small $\lambda_{\rm spin}$ have turned the order parameter into
p-wave pairing, the physics would have been unusual. If one considers
only the Ni d contribution, it would effectively make E_(F) smaller and
thus lower T_(c) , leaving possible $\lambda_{\rm spin}$ even smaller.
(E_(F) = 4 eV leads to T_(c) = 7.6 K which is even closer to that of the
present sample.) It is instructive to compare the physical parameters of
MgCNi₃ with those of

Figure 4: Magnetic field dependence of (a) C/T at T= 0.6 K and (b) δC/T
at T= 2 K. The straight lines are linear fits of the data for H≈ 4 T
implying δγ ∝ H. The open circles in (a) represent data of C/T corrected
with the Schottky term (see the text). In (b), the fitting range is from
1 to 8 T. Data below H= 1 T deviate from the linear behavior due to flux
line interactions at low H. The fits by δγ(H)≈H^(1/2) and by δγ(H)≈H^(n)
are also shown by the dashed and dotted line, respectively, in (b) for
comparison. The latter leads to n = 0.73.

Figure 3: $C_{\rm es}$ of MgCNi₃ in the superconducting state is plotted
on a logarithmic scale vs. T_(c)/T. The straight line is the fit from 2
to 4.5 K.

Nb_(0.5)Ti_(0.5) and Nb, which are two s-wave superconductors. The
results are listed in Table 1. MgCNi₃ appears ordinary among these
superconductors. H_(c2) of Nb is much smaller than those of the others
because Nb_(0.5)Ti_(0.5) and MgCNi₃ are typical type-II superconductors
while Nb is nearly type II. (The coherence length ξ≈5.6 nm in the
present MgCNi₃ sample, and the preliminary magnetization measurements
suggest a penetration depth λ_(L)=128−180 nm (Ref. 9).)

In conclusion, we have presented high quality data of C(T, H) in MgCNi₃.
Parameters like ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c), Θ_(D), and γ_(n) are well determined.
Both the analysis of the data themselves and the comparative studies
with other s-wave superconductors show that all the specific-heat data
in MgCNi₃ are consistent with each other within the moderate-coupling
BCS context. It is amazing that such a superconductor unstable to
ferromagnetism behaves so conventionally.

Another recent paper appeared with related issues. [35] The authors of
Ref. 35 reached a similar conclusion concerning s-wave superconductivity
in MgCNi₃ in the framework of the two-band model.

We are grateful to B. Rosenstein for discussions on p-wave pairing. This
work was supported by National Science Council, Taiwan, Republic of
China under Contract Nos. NSC91-2112-M-110-005 and NSC91-2112-M-009-046.

## References

* [1] T. He _et al._, Nature (London) **411**, 54 (2001). * [2] J.
Nagamatsu _et al._, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [3] H. Rosner
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 027001 (2002). * [4] K. B. Blagoev
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 133 (1999). * [5] Z. Wang _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 257001 (2001). * [6] D. J. Singh and I. I.
Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 140507(R) (2001). * [7] P. M. Singer _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 257601 (2001). * [8] Z. Q. Mao _et al._,
cond-mat/0105280 (unpublished). * [9] C. Q. Jin _et al._, Physica C (to
be published). * [10] S. Y. Li _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 132505
(2001). * [11] T. G. Amos _et al._, Solid State Commun. **121**, 73
(2002). * [12] H. D. Yang _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 167003
(2001). * [13] J. H. Shim _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 180510(R)
(2001). * [14] S. B. Dugdale and T. Jarlborg, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
100508(R) (2001). * [15] V. Z. Kresin and V. P. Parkhomenko, Fiz. Tverd.
Tela (Leningrad) **16**, 3363 (1974) [Sov. Phys. Solid State **16**,
2180 (1975)]. * [16] S. Nishizaki _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**,
572 (2000). * [17] F. Bouquet _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001
(2001). * [18] A. P. Ramirez, Phys. Lett. A **211**, 59 (1996). * [19]
J. E. Sonier _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 4914 (1999). * [20] C.
Caroli _et al._, Phys. Lett. **9**, 307 (1964). * [21] G. E. Volovik,
Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **58**, 457 (1993) [JETP Lett. **58**, 469
(1993)]. * [22] For a brief review, see H. D. Yang and J. Y. Lin, J.
Phys. Chem. Solids **62**, 1861 (2001). * [23] J.-Y. Lin _et al._, J.
Supercond. **15**, 485 (2002). * [24] S. J. Chen _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**58**, R14 753 (1998). * [25] C. F. Chang _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**61**, 14 350 (2000). * [26] K. A. Moler _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **55**,
3954 (1997). * [27] B. Revaz _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 3364
(1998). * [28] E. W. Collings, _Applied Superconductivity, Metallurgy,
and Physics of Titanium Alloys_ (Plenum, New York, 1986), Vol. 1. * [29]
G. Gladstone, M. A. Jensen, and J. R. Schrieffer, in
_Superconductivity_, edited by R. D. Parks (Dekker, New York, 1969),
Vol. 2. * [30] C. Kittle, _Introduction to Solid State Physics_, 7th ed.
(Wiley, New York, 1996). * [31] T. P. Orlando and K. A. Delin,
_Foundations of Applied Superconductivity_ (Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA,
1991). * [32] D. A. Wright _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 1550
(1999). * [33] D. Lipp _et al._, Europhys. Lett. **58**, 435 (2002). *
[34] A. A. Abrikosov, _Fundamentals of the Theory of Metals_
(North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1988). * [35] A. Walte _et al._,
cond-mat/0208364 (unpublished).
