# Structure and microstructure of the ferromagnetic superconductor
RuSr2GdCu2O8

A. C. McLaughlin, W. Zhou, and J. P. Attfield

Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Superconductivity, University of
Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0HE United Kingdom

and Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road,
Cambridge CB2 1EW, United Kingdom

A. N. Fitch

European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Boite Postale 220, 38043
Grenoble Cedex, France

J. L. Tallon

Industrial Research Limited, P.O. Box 13130, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

19 April 1999

###### Abstract

Two samples of RuSr2GdCu2O8, in which ferromagnetism and
superconductivity coexist at low temperatures, have been studied by
high-resolution electron microscopy and synchrotron x-ray-diffraction
methods. The average crystal structure is tetragonal at both 10 and 295
K, but a superstructure resulting from coherent rotations of the RuO6
octahedra within subdomains of 50-200 A are observed by electron
diffraction. The Cu-O bond distances indicate a high hole concentration
(_p_ 0.4) in the CuO2 planes, which is inconsistent with the previously
observed underdoped transport properties (_p_ 0.1). This may reflect
extensive hole trapping by the Ru moments. [S0163-1829(99)02834-9]

## Introduction

Coexisting ferromagnetism and superconductivity have recently been
discovered in the 1212-type layered cuprate RuSr2GdCu2O8.[1] This
material displays a Curie transition at T_(M) = 132 K and bulk
superconductivity below T_(c) = 0 - 46 K depending on sample
preparations. A variety of physical measurements, in particular,
zero-field muon spin rotation experiments,[2] have demonstrated that the
material is microscopically uniform with no evidence for spatial phase
separation of superconducting and magnetic regions. Superconductivity
appears to be associated with the copper oxide planes while the
ruthenium oxide slab behaves like SrRuO3,[3] which is an itinerant
electron ferromagnet below T_(M) = 165 K, rather than Sr2RuO4, which is
a _p_-wave superconductor with T_(c) 1 K.[4, 5]

The above and previous studies of RuSr2GdCu2O8 (Refs. 6 and 7) have
shown that the physical properties are strongly dependent on sample
preparation conditions. Long annealing times are needed to suppress the
formation of SrRuO3 and achieve the ferromagnetic superconducting phase.
In this study we have characterized the structure and microstructure of
two RuSr2GdCu2O8 samples using high-resolution synchrotron x-ray powder
diffraction and electron microscopy. Although neutron diffraction is the
method of choice for magnetic oxides, the high absorption cross section
of natural Gd for thermal neutrons makes the technique impractical here
without isotopic enrichment.

## Experiment

RuSr2GdCu2O8 was synthesized by a solid-state reaction of stoichiometric
powders of RuO2, SrCO3, Gd2O3, and CuO. These were decomposed at 960
degC in air then ground, milled, and die-pressed into pellets before
preliminary reaction in flowing nitrogen at 1010 degC for 10 h followed
by reaction in flowing oxygen at 1050 degC and 1055 degC for 10 h each.
The sample was furnace cooled, reground, and repelted between each step.
Part of the latter "as-prepared" sample was heated at 1060 degC in
flowing oxygen for 7 days and slow cooled to room temperature, giving
the "annealed" sample. Thermogravometric analysis of the annealed sample
under flowing hydrogen/nitrogen gave an oxygen content of 8.00 +- 0.02,
and another analysis 3 months later gave 7.99 +- 0.03.

Selected area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns and high-resolution
transmission electron microscopic (HRTEM) images were recorded from the
as-prepared and annealed RuSr2GdCu2O8 samples on a JEOL JEM-200CX
electron microscope. Each sample was powdered and dispersed on a copper
grid covered by a holey carbon film. The spherical and chromatic
aberration coefficients of C_(s) = 0.41 mm and C_(s) = 0.95 mm,
respectively, give an interpretable resolution of  1.85 A.

## Results

Transport and magnetic measurements of the as-prepared and annealed
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ samples have been reported elsewhere.[1] The as-prepared
material has T_(c)(R = 0) = 20 K and T_(M) = 132 K. Annealing raises
T_(c)(R = 0) to 37 K but the ferromagnetic transition is almost
unchanged with T_(M) = 134 K.

All of the main diffraction spots in the SAED patterns (Fig. 1) from the
as-prepared specimen can be indexed by the basic tetragonal unit cell
expected for 1212-type cuprates with a = 3.84 and c ≈ 11.6 A. However,
additional weak spots on the SAED pattern viewed down the [001]
direction [Fig. 1(b)] indicate that a
$\sqrt{2}a\!\times\!\sqrt{2}a\!\times\!c$ supercell is formed. When
large areas of this sample were examined, each particle was found to
contain many domains. A typical HRTEM image is shown in Fig. 2. The
areas labeled A, B, and C are individual domains. A and C are both
oriented in the [100] direction, but rotated by 90^(∘) from one another.
Domain B ([001] orientation) is perfectly intergrown between A and C
without any amorphous boundaries. Area D shows an intergrowth of A and B
with an interface on the (100) planes for both domains. The intergrowth
of A and B in the area E is between the (010) plane of A and the (001)
plane of B.

The SAED patterns from microcrystallites of the annealed specimen are
similar to those from the as-prepared material and show the
$\sqrt{2}a\!\times\!\sqrt{2}a\!\times\!c$ supercell. However, the domain
microstructure is significantly changed by the annealing process, as
shown by the HRTEM image in Fig. 3 that is projected on the [001] zone
axis. No irregular domain boundaries are observed and the underlying
structure is coherent across the area of the image, however, some
unusual rectangular boundaries are observed.

Synchrotron x-ray diffraction shows the annealed sample to be highly
crystalline with peakwidths (full-width at half-maximum)
∼ 0.03^(∘) ≥ 2θ. In the 295 K data, the maximum peak intensity is 22 000
counts against a background of 50 counts. This gives a very high
sensitivity to weak diffraction peaks, however, no reflections from the
supercell found by electron microscopy or from secondary phases such as
SrRuO₃ were seen. All of the observed peaks can be indexed on the
tetragonal a × a × c cell.

An excellent Rietveld fit to the 295 K profile was obtained with a
tetragonal, P4/mmm symmetry structural model (Table 1) and no evidence
for an orthorhombic distortion was observed. The atomic displacement U
factors for all the sites could be refined anisotropically except for
Ru, which gave one negative principal U value, and was subsequently
refined isotropically. Disorder of the oxygen atoms within the RuO₂
planes, O(3), and of the apical oxygen atoms O(1) linking the CuO₅ units
and RuO₆ octahedra was evidenced by large U values. This was modeled by
using a single isotropic U factor for all the oxygen atoms and splitting
the sites as shown in Table 1. The disorder of O(1) is fitted with [100]
displacements, although we cannot exclude alternative directions such as
[110]. The metal site occupancies refined to within ±1

The 10 K synchrotron diffraction pattern of the annealed RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈
sample (Fig. 4) is similar to the 295 K profile, although background
scatter from the cryostat resulted in some regions of the profile being
excluded from the Rietveld fit. The previous structural model (Table 1)
gives an excellent fit to the data, with group isotropic displacement
parameters being used for the metal atoms and oxygens.

Figure 1: SAED patterns from the as-prepared RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ viewed down
(a) the [100] and (b) the [001] directions. The main diffraction spots
are indexed by the basic tetragonal unit cell with a = 3.84 and c = 11.6
Å. The additional weak spots arrowed in (b) evidence the
$\sqrt{2}a\!\times\!\sqrt{2}a\!\times\!c$ superstructure.

Figure 3: HRTEM image of the annealed RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ sample viewed down
the [001] zone axis showing rectangular antiphase boundaries.

## Discussion

The average structure of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (Fig. 5) is similar to that of
other 1212-type cuprate superconductors, and consists of a layer of
almost regular RuO₆ octahedra connected through their apices to two
layers of CuO₅ square pyramids. Several features in the crystal
structure are important in determining the microstructure observed by
electron microscopy. The c/a axis ratio of 3.015 (at 295 K) is very
close to the ideal value for a triple perovskite structure. For
comparison, c/a varies between 3.032 and 3.066 as δ changes from 0 to 1
in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).[10] The near coincidence of a and b with c/3 in
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ results in the formation of many small domains with c in
one of three almost equivalent directions, as observed in the micrograph
in Fig. 2. The 90^(∘) angle between the CuO₂ planes meeting at the
boundaries between these domains strongly reduces the supercurrent
transport leading to granularity, a low transport T_(c) and a high
residual resistivity in the as-prepared RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ sample.[1] The
improvement in superconducting properties following the long
high-temperature anneal is thus a microstructural effect due to
increases in domain size (Fig. 3), rather than a simple change in cation
composition or oxygen content. This is confirmed by subsequent
heat-capacity studies that show that the thermodynamic transition occurs
at T_(c)= 46 K in both samples.[11] The ferromagnetic order within the
RuO₂ planes appears to be insensitive to these domain effects.

The mismatch between lengths of the in-plane Ru-O and Cu-O bonds results
in rotations of the RuO₆ octahedra around c by 13^(∘) at 295 K. A slight
tilting of the polyhedra that reduces the Cu-O-Ru angle to 173^(∘) is
also observed. These displacements are not significantly different at 10
K,

Figure 4: Observed, calculated, and difference synchrotron
x-ray-diffraction data for the annealed RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ sample at 10 K.
Excluded regions at high angles contain additional scattering from the
cryostat.

Table 2: Interatomic distances (Å) and angles (^(∘)) in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ at
10 and 295 K (upper and lower values, respectively). The ranges given
for some angles reflect the static disorder of the O(1) site.

Figure 5: The average crystal structure of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ showing the
disordered rotations of the RuO₆ octahedra.

Figure 6: A model for the rotations of the RuO₆ octahedra around c in
the RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ structure, resulting in a
$\sqrt{2}a\!\times\!\sqrt{2}a$ superstructure in the xy plane shown by
broken lines. An antiphase boundary within local distortions of the RuO₆
octahedra occur is also shown. This reverses the sense of rotation of
the octahedra.

but the latter can give rise to ferromagnetic order as found in
SrRuO₃.[2, 13]

The observed superconductivity and ferromagnetism in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ shows
that p lies between the above extremes. p may be estimated from the
structural data using bond valence summations that make use of the
sensitivity of Cu-O bond lengths to the hole concentration.[14] In
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈, the four in-plane Cu-O(2) distances are comparable to
those in other cuprate superconductors, but the 2.19 A apical Cu-O(1)
bond is unusually short compared, e.g., to 2.30 A in YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (Ref.
[9]) and 2.35 A in overdoped TlSr₂CaCu₂O_(7 − δ) (Ref. [15]). This
results in a high value of p ≈ 0.4, calculated using the 295 K bond
lengths distances in Table II, and the method of Ref. [16].

The estimate of p ≈ 0.4 appears to be inconsistent with the observed
superconductivity in this RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ sample, and with the previous
estimate of p ≈ 0.1 (i.e., underdoped superconductivity) based on
transport measurements.[1] This contradiction suggests that a large
proportion of the holes is trapped by defects or by the ferromagnetic
order in the sample. The principal interaction between the carriers in
the CuO₂ planes and the Ru moments, in the absence of a direct exchange,
is a classical electromagnetic one. This vanishes if both the carrier
momentum and the field are parallel to the xy plane, and therefore
predicts that the Ru moments lie in this plane (otherwise the
pairbreaking would be too severe for superconductivity to occur).
However, a slight canting of the moments may arise due to a
Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction between neighboring Ru moments, which
is nonzero due to the rotations and tilts of the RuO₆ octahedra. This
can lead to magnetic trapping or scattering of the holes and hence
transport properties typical of nonmagnetic underdoped cuprates, while
the total hole concentration measured crystallographically is much
higher.

## Conclusions

RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ has a tetragonal 1212-type structure typical of many
cuprates, but with an unprecedented short apical Cu-O bond of 2.19 A. No
gross structural changes occur on cooling from 295 to 10 K, below the
ferromagnetic and superconducting transitions at 132 and 37 K,
respectively. Although this material is cation and oxygen
stoichiometric, disorder in the average structure and microstructure
arises from the c/a ratio being very close to 3, and from the mismatch
between Cu-O and Ru-O distances within their respective MO₂ planes. The
former coincidence results in many small misoriented domains in
as-prepared samples, and long high-temperature annealing is needed to
produce large domain material. The bond length mismatch leads to
rotations of the RuO₆ octahedra around c, and the formation of
subdomains separated by sharp antiphase boundaries at which the sense of
rotation is reversed. The hole doping of the CuO₂ planes required for
superconductivity results from overlap of the Cu d_(x² − y²) and Ru
t_(2_(R)) bands. The measured bond distances indicate that a high degree
of charge transfer occurs, but this is at odds with reported transport
properties that are characteristic of underdoped cuprates. This may
reflect a magnetic hole-trapping interaction and further experiments are
needed to clarify this issue.

## Acknowledgments

We thank EPSRC for the provision of research Grant No. GR/M59976, ESRF
beam time, and support for A.C.M. J.L.T. acknowledges support under a
Royal Society of New Zealand James Cook Fellowship and from the Marsden
Fund.

## References

* [1] J. L. Tallon, C. Bernard, M. E. Bowden, T. M. Stoto, B. Walker, P.
W. Gilberd, M. R. Presland, J. P. Attfield, A. C. McLaughlin, and A. N.
Fitch (unpublished). * [2] C. Bernard, J. L. Tallon, Ch. Niedermayer,
Th. Blasius, A. Golnik, E. Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E.
Stronach, and E. J. Ansaldo, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14 099 (1999). * [3]
J. M. Longo, P. M. Raccah, and J. B. Goodenough, J. Appl. Phys. **39**,
1327 (1968). * [4] Y. Maeno, H. Hashimoto, K. Yoshida, S. Nishizaki, T.
Fujita, J. G. Bednorz, and F. Lichtenberg, Nature (London) **372**, 532
(1994). * [5] K. Ishida, H. Mukuda, Y. Kitaoka, K. Asayama, Z. Q. Mao,
Y. Mori, and Y. Maeno, Nature (London) **396**, 658 (1998). * [6] L.
Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151
(1995). * [7] T. Felner, U. Asaf, S. Reich, and Y. Tsabba, Physica C
**311**, 163 (1999). * [8] A. N. Fitch, in _European Powder Diffraction
Conference: EPDIC IV_, edited by R. J. Cernik, R. Delhez, and E. J.
Mittemeijer [Mater. Sci. Forum **228-231**, 219 (1996)]; J. L. Hodeau,
P. Bordet, M. Anne, A. Prat, A. N. Fitch, E. Dooryhee, G. Vaughan, and
A. Freund, Proc. SPIE **3448**, 353 (1998). * [9] A. C. Larson and R. B.
Von Dreele, Los Alamos National Laboratory Report No. LA-UR-86-748, 1994
(unpublished). * [10]_a_ is taken to be the geometric mean of a and b
for orthorhombic compositions. Data were taken from D. C. Johnston _et
al._, in _Chemistry of High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D.
L. Nelson, M. S. Whittingham, and T. F. George, ACS Symp. Ser. 351
(American Chemical Society, Washington, DC, 1987), p. 136. * [11] J. L.
Tallon, J. W. Loram, G. V. M. Williams, and C. Bernhard (unpublished). *
[12] P. D. Battle and W. J. Maclin, J. Solid State Chem. **54**, 245
(1984). * [13] J. H. Cho, Q. X. Jia, X. D. Wu, S. R. Foltyn, and M. P.
Maley, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 37 (1996). * [14] I. D. Brown, J. Solid
State Chem. **82**, 122 (1989). * [15] Y. Shimakawa, J. D. Jorgensen, B.
A. Hunter, H. Shaked, R. L. Hitterman, Y. Kubo, T. Kondo, T. Manako, H.
Takahashi, and N. Mori, Physica C **253**, 71 (1995). * [16] J. L.
Tallon, Physica C **168**, 85 (1990); **176**, 547 (1995).
