# Anomalous phonon damping and thermal conductivity in insulating
cuprates

J. L. Cohn

Physics Department, University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida 33124

C. K. Lowe-Ma

Chemistry Division, Naval Weapons Center, China Lake, California 93555

T. A. Vanderah

National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland
20899

27 June 1995

###### Abstract

We examine the in-plane thermal conductivity (κ_(ab)) for different
classes of insulating cuprate crystals, and present measurements for
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) and PrBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) (x≤ 0.11). An unusual,
nonmonotonic temperature (T) dependence of κ_(ab) , previously observed
in La₂CuO_(4 + δ) , is demonstrated to be a characteristic of the 123
compounds as well. This feature signals the onset of anomalous damping
for in-plane, heat-carrying phonons at T≤250 K that is highly sensitive
to light oxygen doping in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) . Its absence in Nd₂
CuO_(4 + δ) and similarity to the behavior of SrTiO₃ suggests that the
phenomenon in the cuprates is connected with tilt distortions of the CuO
polyhedra. We discuss the implications of these results for
interpretations of the superconducting-state enhancement of κ_(ab) ,
widely observed in superconducting compounds.

A long-standing problem in the study of high-temperature superconductors
is the uncertain role of lattice vibrations in determining their unusual
normal-state properties and superconductivity. Among transport
coefficients, the in-plane thermal conductivity (κ_(ab)) (Ref. [1]) is a
potential probe of phonon interactions and is of particular interest
because it can be studied in both superconducting and normal states.
However, charge-carrier contributions to κ_(ab) make interpretations of
its temperature (T) dependence in superconducting compounds
inconclusive. For this reason there is no consensus regarding the origin
of the superconducting-state enhancement of κ_(ab) , a prominent feature
in κ_(ab)(T) that has received considerable attention recently.[2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8] The thermal conductivity of insulating crystals should
impose important constraints on analyses of this phenomenon and more
generally provide insight into phonon relaxation mechanisms in the
cuprates, but the experimental record in this regard[9, 10, 11, 12, 13]
is incomplete. Here we report measurements of κ_(ab) in insulating
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) and PrBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) single crystals (x≤0.11) that
offer insight into these issues.

The crystals for this study were prepared by a self-decanting CuO flux
method and deoxygenated as described previously.[14] X-ray-diffraction
analysis of one of the crystals (No. 1) indicated a c-axis lattice
constant, c = 11.8364(1) A. Using the results of iodometric analyses of
polycrystalline samples,[15] this c-axis value indicates x = 0.05 ±
0.05. κ_(ab) was measured using a steady-state technique.[16] For
several YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) specimens, silver pads were vapor deposited,
the crystals were annealed in air at 300−350 ^(∘)C, and four-probe
electrical resistivity and thermopower (TEP) (Ref. [17]) were measured
with κ_(ab) for the in-plane geometry. The thermal conductivity of one
specimen was measured prior to (No. 2) and after (No. 2A) the anneal. By
comparing the TEP data with that of polycrystals[18] we infer x values
for the annealed crystals (Nos. 2A,3,4) in the range 0.07 ≤x = 0.11. In
the following we refer to x≈ 0.05 specimens of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) and
PBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) as YBCO6 and PBCO6, respectively. We use YBCO
generically in referring to other stoichiometries.

Figure 1 summarizes κ_(ab) data for a number of insulating cuprate
single crystals: Nd_(1.995)Ce_(0.025)CuO_(4 + δ) (NCO),[12]
La₂CuO_(4 + δ) (LCO),[11] YBCO6 (No. 1), PBCO6, and nominally fully
oxygenated PrBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) (PBCO7).[19] We note that κ_(ab) for
single-crystal Pr₂CuO₄ (PCO) (Ref. [13]) is quite similar in magnitude
and T dependence to isostructural NCO. Both NCO and PCO exhibit
classical dielectric behavior with a sharp peak at low T and weak T
dependence at

Figure 1: ab-plane thermal conductivity vs temperature for insulating
cuprate crystals. The data are for YBCO6 and PBCO6 (this work); LCO
(Ref. [11]); lightly Ce-doped NCO (Ref. [12]); PBCO7 (Ref. [19]).

high temperatures, characteristic of phonon-phonon relaxation. No
anomalies associated with the antiferromagnetic transition [_T__N_ =
260-280 K (Ref. [20]) are observed.

For LCO, YBCO6, and PBCO6, κ_(ab) is comparable in magnitude to that of
NCO (and PCO) near room temperature, but the T dependence is distinctly
nonclassical; an anomalous downturn in κ_(ab) occurs for T < 200 K,
followed by a minimum at 80-100 K, and a second maximum at 20-30 K.
Similar features are observed for PBCO7 though the magnitude of κ_(ab)
and the low-temperature peak are substantially suppressed. This
anomalous behavior of κ_(ab) signals the onset, for T < 200-250 K, of
additional phonon damping in these materials that presumably has a
common origin. The "double peak" structure in κ_(ab)(T) is evidently a
result of a competition between this additional scattering, which
decreases κ_(ab) with decreasing T , and the usual anharmonic
relaxation. Our results for YBCO6 and PBCO6, which have (Ref. [21])
T_(N)∼ 415 K and 325 K, respectively, demonstrate that the κ_(ab)
anomaly is unrelated to the onset of antiferromagnetic order in these
materials. For LCO (_T__(N)∼ 280-300 K) it is possible that magnetic
ordering plays a contributing role.[9, 11] Interestingly, the
out-of-plane thermal conductivity (κ_(c)) for LCO (Ref. [11]) and YBCO6
(Ref. [17]) show no anomalies, indicating that the additional damping is
weaker (relative to other scattering) or absent for phonons propagating
along the c axis.

Further insight into the anomaly may be found in our observation that
κ_(ab) in YBCO is highly sensitive to oxygen content. In Fig. 2 we
present the thermal conductivity of lightly oxygen-doped YBCO crystals.
The magnitude of κ_(ab) has a nonmonotonic doping dependence, initially
increasing with x and dropping substantially for x∼ 0.11. This is most
marked at low temperatures where a sharp maximum develops at _T_∼ 20 K,
the same temperature at which the conventional dielectric peak is
observed in NCO. That over such a narrow range of oxygen content the
heat conductivity rises and falls by a factor of 2 is remarkable.
Evidently a dramatic change takes place near x∼ 0.1. The decrease in
κ_(ab) for x> 0.1 is consistent with previous results for polycrystal
YBCO (Ref. [22]) showing a sharp decrease in κ in going from x∼ 0 to x∼
0.3, a result attributed to the onset of phonon-carrier scattering. This
interpretation is supported by our observation that the T = 300 K
in-plane electrical resistivity (ρ_(ab)) of these crystals (Fig. 2,
caption) decreases by more than two orders of magnitude in going from x∼
0.07 to x∼ 0.11. An increase in the carrier density and/or mobility is
indicated. The Wiedemann-Franz law implies that electronic heat
conduction is negligible for all specimens.

For x< 0.11 the data imply a _decrease_ with increasing x in the
low-temperature phonon scattering. This trend is in sharp contrast to
that which would be expected from a simple picture in which the oxygen
atoms serve as randomly distributed defects in the CuO_(x) layers,
giving rise to _additional_ phonon scattering at a rate proportional to
their concentration. This result indicates a more complex role for
oxygen in modifying the lattice transport; this is further highlighted
by the thermal hysteresis in κ_(ab) that is evident for the crystals
with x∼ 0.07 and x∼ 0.08.

To clarify the temperature and doping dependence of the additional
phonon damping we compute effective phonon relaxation rates τ⁻¹ from the
kinetic theory expression for thermal conductivity κ= (1/3)Cv²τ, where C
is the lattice specific heat per volume,[23] and v is the sound
velocity.[24] Using the rate for NCO ($\tau_{\rm NCO}^{-1}$) as a
reference, we compute the additional scattering rates in the YBCO
crystals by subtraction, δτ⁻¹=
$\tau_{\rm YBCO}^{-1}$$-\tau_{\rm YBCO}^{-1}$, as shown in Fig. 3. The
anharmonic relaxation characterizing NCO is implicitly assumed to be
representative of the intrinsic behavior in the

Figure 2: ab-plane thermal conductivity vs temperature for lightly
oxygen-doped YBCO crystals: open circles No. 2 (x∼ 0.05); closed
circles, No. 2A (x∼0.07,ρ_(ab)= 4.50 Ω cm); open squares, No.
3(x∼0.08,ρ_(ab)= 0.30 Ω cm); solid squares, No. 4 (x∼ 0.11, ρ_(ab)= 0.03
Ω cm). Inset: κ vs T along the ⟨100⟩ direction in SrTiO₃ (Ref. [30]).

other cuprates in the absence of the extra scattering; a reasonable
assumption given their very similar phonon spectra.[25] The effects of
dispersion and optic-mode contributions to heat conduction tend to
reduce the effective phonon velocity at high temperatures, but do not
change the qualitative behavior depicted in Fig. 3.

We see that the anomalous scattering for all specimens has a broad
maximum near 120 K and decreases systematically with increasing x. The
latter trend appears to continue in the x≈ 0.11 specimen though the
maximum is partially masked by additional scattering with a strong
temperature dependence, presumably due to phonon-carrier interactions.
Our simplified treatment does not allow for a separation of multiple
contributions to δτ⁻¹ with any certainty, however it is significant that
δτ⁻¹ for this specimen approaches that of the x≈ 0.08 sample at the
lowest temperatures. This suggests that the anomalous scattering is
comparable or smaller at x≈ 0.11 than at x≈ 0.08. Further measurements
at higher x are required to confirm this point.

The temperatures of the high-T downturns in κ_(ab) coincide with those
of elastic,[26] and Raman[27] anomalies that have been widely reported
in many superconducting cuprates. These are generally interpreted as
signaling a structural phase transition of first order, though consensus
is lacking regarding the mechanism. For YBCO, interpretations have often
invoked ferroelectric or antiferroelectric structural rearrangements of
chain oxygen atoms. The lightly doped insulators have not been as
extensively studied in this context, but dielectric[28] and elastic[29]
anomalies have been reported near the same temperature (∼ 220 K).

These observations strongly suggest that the κ_(ab) anomaly is another
manifestation of this structural modification. Its appearance in LCO,
YBCO6, PBCO6, and PBCO7 clearly indicates that the damping mechanism is
not peculiar to 123 compounds, nor is it directly related, in the 123
materials, to a specific defect structure of the CuO_(x) sublattice. It
is natural to conclude that the relevant differences between the
anomalous κ_(ab) materials and NCO are of a more fundamental structural
nature; of particular interest is the possible role of tilt
instabilities of the CuO polyhedra in the former materials.

The striking similarity between the κ_(ab) anomalies reported here and
that observed in the heat conductivity of SrTiO₃,[30] at its
cubic-tetragonal phase transition near 100 K (Fig. 2, inset) supports
the proposition that local distortions of the CuO polyhedra are
responsible for this phenomenon in the cuprates. The transition in
SrTiO₃ is a classic soft-mode phenomenon, characterized by rotations of
the TiO₆ octahedra about a cube axis (a zone-boundary mode). The thermal
conductivity anomaly for SrTiO₃ is attributed to strong resonant damping
of acoustic phonons due to interaction with the soft optic branch near
the zone center in the low-temperature phase.[31]

Tilts of the CuO₆ octahedra about an in-plane axis are associated with
the well-known HTT-LTO phase transition in LCO near 500 K.
Neutron-scattering studies[32] indicate that LCO is unstable against
further tilts within the LTO phase upon cooling. For YBCO, anomalies in
the local structure associated with apical oxygen have been extensively
discussed,[33] and quite recently an instability against static in-plane
tilts of the CuO₅ pyramids has been identified in the average structure
of superconducting compounds.[34] A similar instability possibly occurs
in insulating YBCO but has yet to be observed in the structural studies
because the distortions occur in sufficiently small (< 100 A in extent),
randomly oriented domains that preserve the average tetragonal symmetry.
The appearance of thermal hysteresis in κ_(ab) and the elastic
properties[26, 29] is consistent with the formation of domains and their
accommodation by strains.

The decrease in scattering with increased doping in the YBCO crystals
may be correlated with known structural changes.[35] In the tetragonal
phase, hole transfer from chain fragments in the CuO_(x) layers to the
CuO₂ planes results in a decrease in the apical oxygen-planar Cu bond
length and the Ba ion-CuO_(x) plane distance. Decreases of about 0.01 A
in these distances are inferred for x increasing from 0.05 to 0.11. This
implies a reduced coupling between the Ba sublattice and the CuO₅
pyramids, and since Ba vibrations predominate in the low-energy acoustic
spectrum, these structural changes could underlie the reduced phonon
damping indicated in Fig. 3. An asymmetry in the electrostatic potential
at the Ba site, leading to in-plane static displacements of Ba toward
the CuO chains, has been identified in YBCO (x = 6.5) as characteristic
of the ortho-II structure.[36] Thus in-plane displacements of Ba toward
chain fragments could also play a role in the doping dependence of the
damping.

Our results have a direct bearing on interpretations of the normal-state
κ_(ab) in superconducting compounds and its enhancement in the
superconducting state. It has been argued[3, 4, 7, 37] that a phononic
origin of the superconducting-state enhancement is incompatible with the
observation that κ_(ab) in the superconductor exceeds that of the
insulator. This argument is certainly no longer valid in YBCO for two
reasons. First, the κ_(ab) values in lightly doped YBCO (Fig. 2 and Ref.
[13]) rival or exceed those of untwinned YBCO7 crystals[8, 16, 37] at
all temperatures. Second, our data suggest that the anomalous phonon
damping may be weaker in YBCO7. Thus, near the enhancement temperature
(T∼ 40 K in YBCO7), where phonon-electron scattering is suppressed, the
lattice thermal conductivity of superconducting YBCO may exceed that of
the insulators.

Furthermore, there is clear evidence that tilts of the CuO polyhedra are
coupled to superconductivity.[33, 34, 38] An abrupt reduction in tilt
amplitude for T<T_(c) is indicated. According to our proposition that
tilt distortions give rise to substantial phonon damping, a reduced
distortion in the superconducting state should enhance the lattice
thermal conductivity.

In summary, our measurements of heat transport in insulating YBCO and
PBCO demonstrate that κ_(ab) is substantially greater in magnitude than
previously appreciated and highly sensitive to light oxygen doping. The
data reveal anomalous phonon damping for T≈ 250 K that we tentatively
attribute to an onset of local tilt distortions of the CuO polyhedra.
This phenomenon may play a contributing role in the
superconducting-state enhancement of κ_(ab) in superconducting cuprates.

The authors acknowledge C. Uher for helpful discussions, P. Henning for
providing data on PBCO7 prior to publication, and D. Litvinov for
experimental assistance. The work at the University of Miami was
supported, in part, by the UM Research Council.

* [1] C. Uher, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature
Superconductors_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore,
1993), Vol. III. * [2] J. L. Cohn _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**,
1657 (1993). * [3] R. C. Yu, M. B. Salamon, and J. P. Lu, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **71**, 1658 (1993). * [4] A. S. Alexandrov and N. F. Mott, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **71**, 1075 (1993). * [5] B. W. Statt and A. Griffin, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 619 (1993). * [6] W. S. Williams, Solid State Commun.
**87**, 355 (1993). * [7] P B. Allen _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 9073
(1994). * [8] C. Uher, Y. Liu, and J. F. Whitaker, J. Supercond. **7**,
323 (1994). * [9] D. T. Morelli _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 804
(1989). * [10] S. J. Hagen, Z. Z. Wang, and N.-P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B
**40**, 9389 (1989). * [11] Y. Nakamura _et al._, Physica C **185-189**,
1409 (1991). * [12] J. L. Cohn _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 12 053
(1992). * [13] A. V. Inyushkin _et al._, Physica B **194-196**, 479
(1994); A. V. Inyushkin _et al._, Physica C **235-240**, 1487 (1994). *
[14] T. A. Vandera _et al._, J. Cryst. Growth **118**, 385 (1992); C. K.
Lowe-Ma and T. A. Vanderahi, Physica C **201**, 233 (1992). * [15] M. S.
Osofsky _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 4916 (1992); M. E. Parks _et
al._, J. Solid State Chem. **79**, 53 (1989). * [16] J. L. Cohn _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 13 144 (1992). * [17] J. L. Cohn, J.
Supercond. **8**, 457 (1995); J. L. Cohn _et al._ (unpublished). * [18]
S. D. Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14
928 (1992). * [19] P. Henning _et al._, J. Supercond. **8**, 453 (1995);
similar results have been reported in Ref. [13]. * [20] S. Skanthakumar
_et al._, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **104-107**, 519 (1992). * [21] J.
Rossat-Mignod _et al._, Physica B **169**, 58 (1991); I. Felner _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6739 (1989). * [22] N. V. Zavaritskii, A. V.
Samoiov, and A. A. Yurgens, JETP Lett. **48**, 242 (1988). * [23] J. W.
Loram _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1740 (1993); S. Ghamaty _et
al._, Physica C **160**, 217 (1989); E. Rampf _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**48**, 10 143 (1993). * [24] We use an average sound velocity,
v = 4 000 m/s for both materials, estimated from ultrasonic studies and
dispersion curves; D. F. Lee and K. Salama, Mod. Phys. Lett. B **2**,
1111 (1988); L. Pintschovius _et al._, Physica C **185-189**, 156
(1991). * [25] L. Pintschovius and W. Reichardt, in _Physical Properties
of High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1994), Vol. IV, p. 295. * [26] Z. Zhao _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 721 (1989); V. Muller _et al._, Solid State Commun.
**72**, 997 (1989); Y.-N. Wang _et al._, Phase Transitions **22**, 9
(1990); H. You, U. Welp, and Y. Fang, Physica C **185-189**, 875 (1991);
G. Cannelli _et al._, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **5**, 247 (1992); M.
Kund and K. Andres, Physica C **205**, 32 (1993); W. Ting _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 12 197 (1993); Y. N. Huang _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**49**, 1320 (1994); T. Fukami _et al._, Physica C **241**, 336 (1995);
J. Sugiyama, K. Isawa, and H. Yamauchi, Physica C **242**, 63 (1995). *
[27] See review by J. F. Scott, Phase Transitions **22**, 69 (1990), and
references therein; D. R. Wake _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3728
(1991). * [28] L. R. Testardi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 2324
(1988). * [29] G. Cannelli, R. Cantelli, and F. Cordero, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 7200 (1988); S. De Brion _et al._, Europhys. Lett. **12**, 281
(1990). * [30] Y. Suemune _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **20**, 174
(1965); E. F. Steigmeier, Phys. Rev. **168**, 523 (1968). * [31] H. H.
Barrett, in _Physical Acoustics_, edited by W. P. Mason and R. N.
Thurston (Academic, New York, 1970), Vol. VI, p. 65. * [32] T. R.
Thurston _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 4327 (1989); M. Braden _et al._,
Physica C **223**, 396 (1994). * [33] B. H. Toby _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **64**, 2414 (1990); J. Mustre de Leon _et al._, _ibid._**65**,
1675; M. Arai _et al._, _ibid._**69**, 359 (1992). * [34] P Schweiss _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1387 (1994). * [35] D. Jorgensen _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **41**, 1863 (1990); R. J. Cava _et al._, Physica C
**165**, 419 (1990); Shaked _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 547 (1995). *
[36] T. Zeiske _et al._, Physica C **194**, 1 (1992). * [37] R. C. Yu
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 1431 (1992). * [38] C. Meingast _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 1634 (1990); M. Braden _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **46**, 6458 (1993).
