# Anisotropic in-plane thermal conductivity of single-crystal YBa2Cu4O8

J. L. Cohn

Physics Department, University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida 33124

J. Karpinski

Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, Eidgenossiche, Technische Hochschule
Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland

24 August 1998

###### Abstract

We report measurements of the in-plane thermal conductivity (_k_) of
YBa2Cu4O8 (Y-124) single crystals in the temperature range 4 T t 300 K
and compare them with previous results on YBa2Cu4O6+ (Y-123). For
transport perpendicular to the CuO chains, _k_a(300 K) = 10 W/mK, and
along the chains, _k_b(300 K) = 40 W/mK. The temperature dependence of k
for both transport directions is much stronger than in YBa2Cu3O6+
(Y-123), indicative of substantially superior lattice heat conduction in
Y-124, and resulting in maximum values for k at _T_  20 K exceeding 200
W/mK. The data imply a surprisingly large anisotropy in the lattice
conduction. _k_a and _k_b are enhanced in the superconducting state as
in other cuprates. The magnitude and anisotropy of the enhancement are
discussed and compared to those of Y-123. [S0163-1829(98)06445-5]

The in-plane thermal conductivity (_k_ab) of cuprate superconductors has
been studied extensively over the past several years.1 Unresolved issues
remain concerning the normal-state temperature dependence and the
superconducting-state enhancement. Because of the low carrier density,
heat conduction by the lattice accounts for more than half of the
measured normal-state _k_ab in these materials. One would expect
_k_ab(_T_) in high-quality crystals to reflect a dominant lattice
contribution similar to that of crystalline insulators, i.e.,
_k_ab 1/_T_ at high T, rising sharply to a maximum at low T. This
behavior is observed in Nd2-_x_CeCuO4 (Nd-214),2 but for all other
cuprates investigated _k_ab is very weakly T dependent for T > _T_c .
Whereas for Bi2Sr2CaCuO8 structural disorder (e.g., the Bi-O layer
modulation3) might explain its nearly glasslike lattice contribution,4
this would not seem applicable to YBa2Cu3O6+ (Y-123) and La2-_x_SrCuO4
(La-214). Furthermore, _k_ab(_T_) for undoped, insulating Y-123 and
La-214 is unconventional,5 suggesting that the weak T dependence of
_k_ab is generic to the latter materials and not directly related to the
presence of free charge. An unidentified phonon damping mechanism
appears to underlie this behavior, possibly due to local lattice
distortions5 and/or magnetic excitations.6 Regarding the enhancement,4,7
thermal Hall conductivity experiments8 on optimally doped Y-123 imply
that the phenomenon is largely electronic in origin, but less is known
about underdoped compounds. The magnitude of the enhancement correlates
with the superconducting pair density9,10 in Y-123 throughout the
underdoped regime, and it is of interest to explore the generality of
this behavior through studies of other cuprates.

Here we report measurements of the in-plane thermal conductivity of
YBa2Cu4O8 (Y-124). This material is of particular interest with regard
to the issues mentioned above because of its structural similarity to
Y-123, absence of oxygen vacancies on the CuO chains, and the naturally
underdoped state of the CuO2 planes. We find that the magnitude of _k_a
(transverse to the chains) at T = 300 K is comparable to that of Y-123,
but _k_b is 3-4 times larger. A very large in-plane anisotropy in the
lattice conduction is implied. Both _k_a(_T_) and _k_b(_T_) behave as in
conventional crystalline insulators (like Nd-214); their maximum values
(at T = 20 K) are the highest reported for any cuprate and exceed those
of Y-123 by an order of magnitude. These results imply a strong damping
of phonons by static or dynamic structural distortions as the source for
the much weaker T dependence of _k_ab in Y-123. The
superconducting-state enhancement for Y-124 is comparable in magnitude
to that of _T_c = 60 K Y-123, consistent with the underdoped state of
the planes in the double-chain compound. We discuss the anisotropy of
the enhancement and its implications for the Lorenz number.

Thermal conductivity measurements were performed on three single
crystals grown by a high-pressure flux method as described previously.11
Two of these (189 and 259) were grown in Al2O3 crucibles yielding a
slight Al contamination, and _T_c = 72 K. Recent analyses indicate12
that Al substitutes for 1-2

The results for κ_(a) and κ_(b) are shown in Fig. 1. The anisotropy in
the normal state is substantial, with κ_(b)/κ_(a)∼3 -4 (Fig. 2). The
normal-state T dependence in both crystallographic directions is close
to 1/T for specimen 315 and is significantly weaker (∼ 1/T^(1/2)) for
the crystals containing Al. In all cases the T dependence is
substantially stronger than that of both T_(c) = 92 K and 60 K Y-123
(solid lines, Fig. 1). At low T the characteristic dielectric maxima are
observed near 20 K. A change in slope is evident at T_(c) [Fig. 3 (a)]
for all specimens, though not appearing as prominently as in Y-123
because of the substantially stronger normal-state T dependence. The
low-T maximum values, κ_(b) = 140 and 245 W/mK for samples 189 and 259,
respectively (and 500 W/mK for crystal 315 by extrapolation), are the
largest reported for any cuprate, exceeding the 100 W/mK of insulating
Nd-214,2 and 25−40 W/mK observed in untwinned T_(c) = 92 K Y-123.15-19
These observations indicate substantially superior and rather
conventional lattice conduction in Y-124, confirming a similar
conclusion based on previous measurements of polycrystals.20

The total thermal conductivity is a sum of electronic and lattice
components, κ = κ_(e) + κ_(L). First let us consider the electronic
contributions κ_(a, e) and κ_(b, e). The Wiedemann-Franz law,
κ_(e)(T) = L₀T/ ρ
(L₀= 2.44×10 -                       $\,\,\  the phonon relaxation rates in Y-124, but further information about the low-energy vibrational spectrum is clearly needed to address this issue.

The rather strong influence of the light Al doping in the planes on \(\kappa$
provides insight into the phonon scattering in both Y-124 and Y-123.
Nuclear quadrupole resonance studies of similar Y-124 crystals [12]
reveal substantially larger ⁶³Cu linewidths in the Al-doped crystals,
attributed to static disorder in the Cu(2) apical oxygen bond lengths (a
typical Al-O bond length for octahedral coordination is 1.94 A as
compared with 2.28 A for Cu-O). Such local structural distortions
evidently represent a much more effective phonon-scattering mechanism
than does the mass defect [23, 24] introduced by the substitution. The
local structural modifications may also explain why the hole
concentration and T_(c) are so dramatically suppressed; the 2

In Y-123 a similar static disorder in the apical bond lengths is induced
by oxygen vacancies on the chains [25] and there is evidence for static
or dynamical structural distortions of the CuO₂ planes in the normal
state [26], possibly related to oxygen vacancies or diffusion that are
absent in Y-124. The implication is that these features give rise to
substantial damping of in-plane heat-carrying phonons, and are the
origin of the weaker T dependence and in-plane anisotropy observed for κ
in the single-chain compound.

It is of interest to compare the superconducting-state enhancement of κ
for Y-124 with that of Y-123 [9, 10]. We define the enhancement as
[10]Γ = −d(κ^(′)/κ^(′′))/dt|_(t → 1), the reduced temperature derivative
of the superconducting to normal-state thermal conductivity ratio near
T_(c) . κ^(′′) is determined by a polynomial extrapolation of the
normal-state data just below T_(c) as shown in Fig. 3(a). Figure 3(b)
shows the normalized data and corresponding slopes.

The Γ values agree with those found for twinned Y-123 at similar p
values [10], indicating that for the regime investigated here
(p ≈ 0.11), Γ is largely determined by the change in scattering that
occurs in the CuO₂ planes. That Γ_(a) is larger for Al-free specimen 315
than for specimen 259 is consistent with the higher mobile hole
concentration in the planes of the former. Also of interest is the
anisotropy: Γ_(a)/Γ_(b) = 1.5 for specimen 259. Evidently this
anisotropy is responsible for the decrease in κ_(b)/κ_(a) at T ≤ T_(c)
(Fig. 2). A similar behavior was observed for untwinned Y-123 (x ∼ 0.9)
(solid and dashed lines in Fig. 2), where the enhancement is also
anisotropic [16, 17, 18, 19], with a slightly smaller
Γ_(a)/Γ_(b) ≈ 1.2 − 1.5.

Consider Γ in more detail. We may write

Γ_(i) = (κ_(e, i)/κ_(i))Γ_(e, i) + (κ_(L, i)/κ_(i))Γ_(L, i) ,

where i = a, b, and Γ_(e, i) and Γ_(L, i) are the i-axis electronic and
lattice slope changes, respectively. The thermal conductivities are
evaluated at T_(c) . Theoretically [27]Γ_(e) is a sum of two terms: one
proportional to dΔ²/dt|_(t → 1) and the other proportional to
−d(τ_(app)^(*)/τ_(app)^(*))/dt|_(t → 1) (Δ and τ_(app) are the real part
of the superconducting gap and quasiparticle (qp) lifetime,
respectively). In the cuprates, the second term predominates due to the
strong suppression of qp scattering [28] at T < T_(c) , and Γ_(e) is
positive. Scattering of phonons by charge carriers always produces a
positive lattice term (Γ_(L)), but the thermal Hall conductivity
measurements of Krishana _et al._[8] indicate that the electronic
contribution to the enhancement predominates in optimally doped Y-123.
Their data for twinned Y-123 (x ∼ 0.9) yield Γ_(ab) ≈ 1.4,
Γ_(e, ab) ≈ 12.5, and κ_(e, ab)/κ_(ab) = 9 × 10⁻². Thus, Γ_(L, ab) = 0.3
and about 80

Given these observations, one might expect that the Γ anisotropy simply
follows that of the superfluid, with the larger qp lifetime enhancement
occurring for transport along the crystallographic direction
characterized by the largest superfluid density. However, this is not
the case; for Y-123 and Y-124 the superfluid density is 2-3 times larger
along the chains [30, 31, 32], whereas Γ is larger along the planes. To
get further insight into the origin of the Γ anisotropy, we examine the
limiting case Γ_(L, i) = 0 for which Γ_(i) is determined entirely by the
electronic term. The electronic superconducting-state slope change may
be related to the low-frequency electrical conductivity via the
Wiedemann-Franz law [33]κ_(e, i) = L_(i)σ_(i1)T, where L_(i) and σ_(i1)
are the Lorenz number and real part of the electrical conductivity,
respectively. Substituting into Eq. (1) we have

$$\Gamma_{i} = - \frac{L_{i}\sigma_{1i}T_{c}^{2}}{\kappa_{i}}\left[ \frac{1}{L_{i}}\frac{dL_{i}^{*}}{dT}-\frac{dL_{i}^{*}}{dT}\right]$$
(2)
$$+ \frac{1}{\sigma_{1i}}\left[\frac{d\sigma_{1i}^{*}}{dT}-\frac{d \sigma_{1i}^{*}}{dT}\right]\left| \right._{T \rightarrow T_{c}}\,.$$

Theoretically, the first term has magnitude and sign that are highly
model dependent [34]. We first examine the second term. For untwinned,
optimally doped Y-123, the microwave data of Zhang _et al._[30] yield
(dσ_(1i)^(*)/dT)|_(T) ≈ −0.8 × 10⁵ (Ω$\rm{m\ K}$)⁻¹ and
(dσ_(1b)^(*)/dT)|_(T_(c)) ≈ −1.8 × 10⁵ (Ω$\rm{m\ K}$)⁻¹. For the
normal-state data we employ dσ/dT = −(1/ρ²)dρ/dT and an average of ρ(T)
measurements on high-quality untwinned crystals [35]:
ρ_(a)(T_(c)) ≈ 75±25μΩ cm, dρ_(a)/dT|_(T_(c)) ≈ 0.85 ± 0.25μΩ cm/K,
ρ_(b)(T_(c)) = 38 ± 12μΩ cm, dρ_(b)/dT|_(T_(c)) ≈ 0.35 ± 0.10μΩ cm/K.
For the κ data we use constrained to fit the normal-state NMR relaxation
and electrical resistivity. We thus conclude that both L_(a) and L_(b)
are less than L₀ and that the (dL_(i)^(′)/dT − dL_(i)^(n)/dT)|_(T_(c))
are negative and of comparable magnitude to the second terms in Eq. (2).
A considerable _a_/_b_ anisotropy (∼2-3) in the L_(i),
(dL_(i)^(′)/dT − dL_(i)^(n)/dT)|_(T_(c)), or both is then implied.
Calculations that incorporate inelastic as well as elastic scattering to
yield the L_(i)(T) near T_(c) would be useful to extract further
information from the Γ_(i) .

Work at the University of Miami was supported, in part, by NSF Grant No.
DMR-9631236, and at the ETH by the Swiss National Science Foundation.

## References

* [1] C. Uher, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature
Superconductors_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore,
1993), Vol. III, p. 159. * [2] J. L. Cohn, M. S. Osofsky, J. L. Peng, Z.
Y. Li, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 12 053 (1992). * [3] See,
e.g., C. H. Chen, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature
Superconductors_, Ref. 1, Vol. II, p. 199. * [4] P. B. Allen, X. Du, L.
Mihaly, and L. Forro, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 9073 (1994). * [5] J. L.
Cohn, C. K. Lowe-Ma, and T. A. Vanderah, Phys. Rev. B **52**, R13 134
(1995). * [6] A. V. Inyushkin, A. N. Taldenkov, L. N. Demyanets, T. G.
Uvarova, and A. B. Bykov, Physica B **194-196**, 479 (1994); A.
Inyushkin, A. Taldenkov, and T. Uvarova, Physica C **235-240**, 1487
(1994). * [7] J. L. Cohn, V. Z. Kresin, M. E. Reeves, and S. A. Wolf,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1657 (1993); R. C. Yu, M. B. Salamon, and J. P.
Lu, _ibid._**71**, 1658 (1993); A. S. Alexandrov and N. F. Mott,
_ibid._**71**, 1075 (1993); B. W. Statt and A. Griffin, Phys. Rev. B
**48**, 619 (1993); W. S. Williams, Solid State Commun. **87**, 355
(1993); C. Uher, Y. Liu, and J. F. Whitaker, J. Supercond. **7**, 323
(1994); P. J. Hirschfeld and W. O. Putikka, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**,
3909 (1996). * [8] K. Krishana, J. M. Harris, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **75**, 3529 (1995). * [9] J. L. Cohn, Phys. Rev. B **53**, R2963
(1996). * [10] C. P. Popoviciu and J. L. Cohn, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 3155
(1997). * [11] J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, E. Jilek, S. Rusiecki, and B.
Bucher, Nature (London) **336**, 660 (1988). * [12] H. Schwer, J.
Karpinski, E. Kaldis, G. I. Meijer, C. Rossel, and M. Mali, Physica C
**267**, 113 (1996). * [13] J. Schoenes, J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, J.
Keller, and P. DelaMora, Physica C **166**, 145 (1990); B. Bucher, P.
Steiner, J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, and P. Wachter, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**70**, 2012 (1993); B. Bucher and P. Wachter, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3309
(1995); B. Bucher, J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, and P. Wachter, _ibid._,
**53**, 94 (1996). * [14] J. L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, H. Shaked, R. L.
Hitterman, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 12 911 (1995). *
[15] C. Uher, Y. Liu, and J. F. Whitaker, J. Supercond. **7**, 323
(1994). * [16] J. L. Cohn, E. F. Skelton, S. A. Wolf, J. Z. Liu, and R.
N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 13 144 (1992). * [17] R. C. Yu, M. B.
Salamon, J. P. Lu, and W. C. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 1431
(1992). * [18] Z. Gold, R. Gagnon, B. Ellman, L. Taillefer, and K.
Behnia, Physica C **235-240**, 1485 (1994). * [19] R. Gagnon, S. Pu, B.
Ellman, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 1976 (1997). * [20]
B. M. Andersson and B. Sundqvist, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 3575 (1993). *
[21] J. E. Jaffe, A. D. Kulkarni, and F. W. De Wette, Physica C
**185-189**, 1405 (1991). * [22] K. K. Yim, J. Oitmaa, and M. M.
Elcombe, Solid State Commun. **77**, 385 (1991). * [23] The scattering
rate for mass defects can be expressed as (see Ref. 24, p. 74)
τ⁻¹ = (c_(p)a³ω⁴/4πτ³) (ΔM/M)², where c_(p) is the defect concentration,
a³ the volume per defect, v the sound velocity, M the mass of the atom
normally occupying the defect site, and ΔM the difference in mass
represented by the defect. Using c_(p) = 2.7 × 10⁻³ (corresponding to
2 * [24] R. Berman, _Thermal Conduction in Solids_ (Clarendon Press,
Oxford, 1976). * [25] J. D. Jorgensen, B. W. Veal, A. P. Paulikas, L. J.
Nowicki, G. W. Gabtree, H. Claus, and W. K. Kwok, Phys. Rev. B **41**,
1863 (1990). * [26] A. Yakubowskii, A. Egorov, and H. Lutgemeier, Appl.
Magn. Reson. **3**, 665 (1992); P. Schweiss, W. Reichardt, M. Braden, G.
Collin, G. Heger, H. Claus, and A. Erb, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1387
(1994); R. P. Sharma, T. Venkatesan, Z. H. Zhang, J. R. Liu, R. Chu, and
W. K. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 4624 (1996). * [27] V. Ambegaokar
and J. Woo, Phys. Rev. **139**, A1818 (1965). * [28] M. C. Nuss, P. M.
Mankiewich, M. L. O’Malley, E. H. Westerwick, and P. B. Littlewood,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 3305 (1991); D. A. Bonn, P. Dosanjh, R. Liang,
and W. N. Hardy, _ibid._**68**, 2390 (1992). * [29] K. Krishana, Y.
Zhang, Z. A. Xu, and N. P. Ong (unpublished). * [30] K. Zhang, D. A.
Bonn, S. Kamal, R. Liang, D. J. Baar, W. N. Hardy, D. Basov, and T.
Timusk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 2484 (1994). * [31] D. N. Basov, R.
Liang, D. A. Bonn, W. N. Hardy, B. Dabrowski, M. Quijada, D. B. Tanner,
J. P. Rice, D. M. Ginsberg, and T. Timusk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 598
(1995). * [32] J. L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, U. Binninger, A. Hofer, G. V.
M. Williams, E. J. Ansaldo, J. I. Budnick, and Ch. Niedermayer, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **74**, 1008 (1995). * [33] M. B. Salamon, F. Yu, and V. N.
Kopylov, J. Supercond. **8**, 449 (1995). * [34] M. J. Graf, S -K. Kip,
J. A. Sauls, and D. Rainer, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 15 147 (1996). * [35]
T. A. Friedmann, M. W. Rubin, J. Giapintzakis, J. P. Rice, and D. M.
Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6217 (1990); R. Gagnon, C. Lupien, and L.
Taillefer, _ibid._**50**, 3458 (1994). * [36] L. B. Ioffe and G.
Kotliar, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 10 348 (1990).
