# Magnetic properties of EuPtSi₃ single crystals

Neeraj Kumar, S. K. Dhar, and A. Thamizhavel

Department of Condensed Matter Physics and Material Sciences, Tata
Institute of Fundamental Research, Homi Bhabha Road, Colaba, Mumbai 400
005, India

P. Bonville

DSM/IRAMIS/Service de Physique de l’Etat Condense, CEA Saclay, 91191
Gif-Sur-Yvette, France

P. Manfrinetti

Dipartimento di Chimica e Chimica Industriale, Universita di Genova, Via
Dodecaneso 31, 16146 Genova, Italy

Received 19 October 2009; revised manuscript received 5 February 2010;
published 13 April 2010

###### Abstract

Single crystals of EuPtSi₃, which crystallize in the BaNiSn₃-type
crystal structure, have been grown by high-temperature solution growth
method using molten Sn as the solvent. EuPtSi₃ which lacks the inversion
symmetry and has only one Eu site in the unit cell is found to be an
antiferromagnet with two successive magnetic transitions at
$T_{\rm N1}$=17 K and $T_{\rm N2}$=16 K, as inferred from magnetic
susceptibility, heat capacity, and ¹⁵¹Eu Mossbauer measurements. The
isothermal magnetization data for H∥[001] reveal a metamagnetic
transition at a critical field $H_{\rm c}$=1 T. The magnetization
saturates to a moment value of 6.43$\mu_{\rm B}$/Eu above 5.9 T (9.2 T)
for H∥[001] ([100]), indicating that these fields are spin-flip fields
for the divalent Eu moments along the two axes. The origin of this
anisotropic behavior is discussed. A magnetic (H and T) phase diagram
has been constructed from the temperature dependence of isothermal
magnetization data. The reduced jump in the heat capacity at
$T_{\rm N1}$ indicates a transition to an incommensurate, amplitude
modulated antiferromagnetic structure. The shape of the hyperfine field
split Mossbauer spectrum at $T_{\rm N1}$ provides additional support for
the proposed nature of this magnetic transition.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.81.144414 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **81**, 144414 (2010)

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity in the doped AFe₂As₂ (A = Ba, Ca, Sr,
and Eu) spin-density wave compounds has generated a great deal of
activity in search of new compounds, particularly with Ba, Ca, Sr, and
Eu which exhibit interesting magnetic and superconducting properties.[1,
2, 3, 4] Very recently, Bauer _et al.[5]_ have reported
superconductivity at 2.25 K in BaPtSi₃ which crystallizes in the
tetragonal BaNiSn₃-type noncentrosymmetric crystal structure with the
space group I4mm. Compounds possessing a noncentrosymmetric crystal
structure have been studied quite extensively after the discovery of
superconductivity in CePtSi ($T_{\rm c}$=0.75 K).[6] Several other Ce
compounds with the general formula CeTiSi₃, where T is a transition
metal (Rh, Ir, and Co) crystallizing in the BaNiSn₃-type crystal
structure were later found to exhibit superconductivity under
pressure.[7, 8, 9, 10] The anisotropic magnetic properties of CePtSi₃
were studied by Kawai _et al.[11]_ and they observed that the Ce moments
order antiferromagnetically with two successive transitions at 4.8 and
2.4 K, respectively. In this work, we report on the crystal growth,
electrical, and magnetic properties of EuPtSi₃ which also crystallizes
in the BaNiSn₃-type crystal structure. Interest in the Eu compounds
stems from their unusual magnetic properties such as valence fluctuation
or magnetic ordering due to the strong Coloumb interaction between the
4f and conduction electrons. Eu compounds are also appealing as the
charged state and the magnetic interactions of the Eu ions can be probed
by the technique of ¹⁵¹Eu Mossbauer spectroscopy, supplementing the
information derived from the usual bulk techniques such as
magnetization, resistivity, and heat capacity. We find that the magnetic
properties of EuPtSi₃ show an unexpected anisotropy (Eu²⁺ is a S-state
ion, with L=0), whose origin is discussed. The specific heat and
Mossbauer data suggest that two magnetic transitions take place at
$T_{\rm N1}$=17 K and $T_{\rm N2}$=16 K. The transition at 17 K is a
paramagnetic incommensurate magnetic transition followed by a lock-in
transition to a single moment, commensurate phase at 16 K; a phenomenon
which is encountered in other Eu²⁺ or Gd³⁺ compounds.

## II Experimental

The single crystals of EuPtSi₃ were grown by the high-temperature
solution growth using the fourth element, Sn as the solvent as reported
by Kawai _et al.[11]_ for the crystal growth of CePtSi₃. We took the
charge of high purity individual metals Eu, Pt, Si, and Sn in the ratio
1:1:3:19. The metals were placed in a recrystallized alumina crucible
and sealed in a quartz ampoule with a partial pressure of argon gas. The
sealed crucible was then slowly heated to 1050 ^(∘)C and kept at this
temperature for 1 day to achieve proper homogenization. Then the
temperature of the furnace was cooled down to 500 ^(∘)C over a period of
3 weeks. The grown crystals were extracted out of the Sn solvent by
means of centrifuging. Several plateletlike single crystals with typical
dimension 4 × 3 × 0.6 mm³ were obtained. The [001] axis is perpendicular
to the plane of crystals. Our attempts to make CaPtSi₃ by this method
were unsuccessful and resulted in the formation of good single crystals
of Ca₂PtSi₃ which has recently been reported by Takeuchi _et al.[12]_ A
polycrystalline sample of LaPtSi₃, as reference, nonmagnetic analog of
the Eu compound, was prepared by the usual method of arc melting in an
inert atmosphere of argon and annealed at 900 ^(∘)C for 2 weeks.

The dc magnetic susceptibility and the in-field magnetization
measurements were performed in the temperature range 1.8-300 K using a
Quantum Design superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer
and Oxford vibrating sample magnetometer. The temperature dependence of
electrical resistivity in the range 1.8-300 K was measured using a
homemade dc electrical resistivity setup. The heat capacity and
magnetoresistance measurements were performed using a Quantum Design
physical properties measurement system. ¹⁵¹Eu Mossbauer spectra were
recorded at various temperatures using a conventional acceleration
spectrometer with a ¹⁵¹SmF₃ source. Laue diffraction spots were recorded
on a Huber Laue diffractometer while powder-diffraction pattern was
recorded using Phillips Pan-analytical setup. Electron probe
microanalysis (EPMA) measurements were performed on a CAMECA SX100
electron microprobe.

## III Results and Discussion

In order to study the magnetic properties along the principal
crystallographic directions, the single crystal of EuPtSi₃ was subjected
to Laue diffraction; the good quality of the single crystals with
fourfold symmetry was confirmed by Laue diffraction spots. The flat
plane of the crystal corresponded to the (001) plane. The crystal was
then cut along the principal crystallographic directions by means of
spark erosion cutting machine. Since the single crystal was grown using
Sn as flux, a few pieces of the single crystals were crushed into powder
form and subjected to powder x-ray diffraction to check the phase purity
of the sample. From the Rietveld analysis, it is confirmed that the
sample possesses tetragonal crystal structure with the space group
_I4mm_. The estimated lattice constants are a = 4.2660 A and c = 9.8768
A with the unit-cell volume 179.74 A³. Weak intensity peaks
corresponding to free Sn were also detected in the powder spectra even
after the surface of the crystal was thoroughly scrapped to remove any
superficial Sn on the surface. EuPtSi₃ has a layered structure and a
thin layer of free Sn may get incorporated between the layers during the
process of crystal growth. The powder x-ray diffraction pattern of
polycrystalline LaPtSi₃ was similar to that of EuPtSi₃ showing thereby
that the two are isostructural. The lattice parameters obtained from the
Rietveld analysis are a = 4.3467 A and c = 9.6335 A with the unit-cell
volume 182.01 A³. EPMA of the single crystals averaged over ten
different spots revealed the following composition:
Eu21.13P_(20.50)Si_(85.29):Sn_(0.08) which is very close to 1:1:3
stoichiometry. The trace amount of Sn present in the single crystals is
apparently unavoidable.

The temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity of EuPtSi₃ for
current parallel to [100] direction is shown in Fig. 1. The magnitude of
electrical resistivity is typical of intermetallic compounds and its
decrease with decreasing temperature indicates a metallic state. At 17 K
the resistivity shows a change in slope (shown on an enlarged scale in
the inset of Fig. 1) due to reduction in spin disorder scattering
arising from magnetic ordering of the Eu moments. The resistivity shows
only one transition; however a second magnetic transition is clearly
seen in the magnetic susceptibility and the heat-capacity data as
described in the following. Near T = 3.7 K which is close to the
superconducting transition temperature of Sn, the resistivity shows a
drop which does not however attain a zero value. This indicates the
presence of some minor filamentary Sn incorporated in the crystal during
growth process.

The temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility from 1.8 to 300 K
is shown in Fig. 2 with the applied magnetic field H parallel to [100]
and [001] directions, respectively. The low-temperature
magnetic-susceptibility data

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of magnetic
susceptibility along the two principal directions in the temperature
range from 1.8 to 300 K measured in an applied field of 0.1 T. The inset
in (a) shows the low-temperature part of the magnetic susceptibility
clearly indicating the two antiferromagnetic ordering in EuPtSi₃. (b)
Inverse magnetic susceptibility of EuPtSi₃, the solid lines indicate the
fit to Curie-Weiss law.

Figure 1: (Color online) Temperature dependence of electrical
resistivity for _I_][100] in the temperature range from 1.8 to 300 K.
The inset shows the low-temperature part and the arrow indicates the
magnetic ordering.

clearly show two magnetic transitions at $T_{\rm N}$=17 and 16 K. The
inverse magnetic susceptibility of EuPtSi₃ is shown in Fig. 2(b) and the
high-temperature data were fitted to the Curie-Weiss law,
χ=$C/(T\!-\!\theta_{\rm p})$. For H∥[100], the effective moment
$\mu_{\rm eff}$ is 7.62$\mu_{\rm B}$/Eu and the paramagnetic Curie
temperature $\theta_{\rm p}$=4.7 K and for H∥[001],
$\mu_{\rm eff}$=7.56$\mu_{\rm B}$/Eu and $\theta_{\rm p}$=11.7 K. The
effective moments are lower than the free ion value for Eu2+
($\mu_{\rm eff}$=7.94$\mu_{\rm B}$), yielding a magnetic signal which is
8

To further elucidate the nature of magnetic ordering, we have performed
isothermal magnetization versus field scans at T=2 K in a vibrating
sample magnetometer up to a field of 12 T as shown in Fig. 3. At low
field, the magnetizations along the two principal directions increase
linearly with the field, with similar slopes. For H∥[001], there is an
abrupt increase in the magnetization at 1 T followed by a faster linear
increase up to 5.9 T; above 5.9 T, the magnetization is saturated with a
value 6.43$\mu_{\rm B}$/Eu. For H∥[100], the magnetization shows a
linear increase with field and saturates to the same value at a higher
field of 9.2 T. The apparent saturation moment is lower than the Eu2+
free ion value (7$\mu_{\rm B}$/Eu) by 8

$$k_{\rm B}\theta_{pi}=\frac{2S(S+1)}{3}({\cal J}_{1i}+{\cal J}_{2i}).$$
(1)

The anisotropy of $\theta_{\rm p}$ then can stem from an anisotropy of
the exchange constants. On the other hand, one has

$$k_{\rm B}T_{\rm N}=\frac{2S(S+1)}{3}|\!-{\cal J}_{1\rm k}+{\cal J}_{2\rm k}|,$$
(2)

where k labels the direction of the propagation vector of the magnetic
structure. In case ${\cal J}_{1\rm k}$ is negative and
${\cal J}_{2\rm k}$ is positive with
${\cal J}_{2\rm k}$>$|{\cal J}_{1\rm k}|$, then the magnetic structure
is of AF type. If these conditions are also fulfilled for the exchange
integrals along directions [001] and [100], then the paramagnetic Curie
temperatures are positive, and $T_{\rm N}$>$\theta_{\rm p}$, as observed
EuPtSi₃.

We have also recorded the magnetization data at various temperatures for
H∥[001]. As the temperature is increased, the spin-flop transition
shifts slightly to higher fields and then it decreases as the
temperature is increased. The spin-flip field monotonically decreases as
temperature is in

Figure 3: (Color online) Isothermal magnetization measurement of EuPtSi₃
along the two principal crystallographic directions.

creased. From the _dM_/_dH_ plots (not shown here) we have constructed
the magnetic phase diagram as shown in Fig. 4.

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of heat capacity of EuPtSi3
measured between 2 and 40 K, together with the heat capacity of
nonmagnetic, reference polycrystalline LaPtSi3. The heat capacity
clearly shows two peaks at 17 and 16 K confirming the bulk magnetic
ordering in this compound. Incidentally, isostructural CePtSi3, also
exhibits two magnetic transitions at 4.8 and 2.4 K, respectively. [11]
The magnetic part of heat capacity _C_mag was deduced by the usual
method of subtracting the heat capacity of LaPtSi3 from that of EuPtSi3
after taking into account the renormalization due to different atomic
masses of La and Eu. The _C_mag/_T_ versus temperature plot and the
calculated entropy is shown in Fig. 5(b). The entropy is about 0.8R ln 8
at _T_N1 but above _T_N1 it exceeds the theoretical value of R ln 8 for
S = 7/2. While short-range order above _T_N1, which is typically present
in the paramagnetic state, would explain the observed values of entropy
up to _T_N1, the increase in entropy beyond R ln 8 at higher
temperatures suggests that LaPtSi3 may not be a good reference for the
lattice heat capacity of EuPtSi3 at higher temperatures. We believe such
an indication is reflected by the heat-capacity plots of the two
compounds which show an increasing divergence from each other _at high
temperatures_. The different valence states of Eu2+ and La3+ may result
in different interatomic potentials modifying the phonon spectra of
these two compounds. The heat-capacity jump D_C_mag at _T_N is estimated
to be 14.6 J/Kmol. Based on the mean-field approximation, Blanco _et
al._[17] have calculated the heat-capacity jumps at the magnetic
transition for two types of magnetic structures, namely, the equal
moment (EM) where the magnetic moments are the same at all sites and the
amplitude modulated (AM), where the magnetic-moment amplitude varies
periodically from one site to another. For the case of EM structure, the
jump in the heat capacity at the ordering temperature is given by

$$\Delta C_{\text{EM}} = 5\frac{J(J + 1)}{(2J^{2} + 2J + 1)}R$$

and for the amplitude modulated system,

$$\Delta C_{\text{AM}} = \frac{10}{3}\frac{J(J + 1)}{(2J^{2} + 2J + 1)}R,$$

where J is the total angular momentum. Since the effects of crystal
electric field for L = 0, divalent state of Eu are negligible, the total
angular momentum _J_(=7/2) can be used in the above equations. D_C_EM
amounts to 20.14 J/Kmol for the EM case, while for the AM case, D_C_AM
equals 13.4 J/Kmol. Thus, theoretically, the jump in the heat capacity
at the magnetic transition for AM case is reduced to 2/3 of the value
for EM case. [17] Our estimate of D_C_mag (14.6 J/Kmol) at _T_N1 thus
strongly suggests that EuPtSi3 possesses an amplitude modulated
structure. Furthermore, Blanco _et al._ found that for the amplitude
modulated system a hump in the heat capacity occurs below the ordering
temperature, to compensate the loss of entropy just below _T_N, which
incidentally is seen in EuPtSi3 as shown in Fig. 5(b) in the _C_/_T_
versus temperature plot.

Eu Mossbauer spectroscopy is an excellent tool to probe the valence and
the magnetic state of Eu ions in Eu compounds. While information about
the valence state of Eu ions is obtained via the isomer shift, the
magnitude of the hyperfine magnetic field can be inferred from the
splitting of the spectrum due to hyperfine interaction. 151Eu Mossbauer
absorption spectra were recorded in EuPtSi3 in the temperature range
4.2-19 K and at 300 K. Spectra at selected temperatures are shown in
Fig. 6. All the spectra point to the presence of Eu2+ with no traces of
Eu3+ impurity content. The isomer shift of all the spectra was found to
be -10.0(4) mm/s arising from the divalent state of Eu ions. A single
line is observed from room temperature down to 19 K. At 300 K the
linewidth is 2.65 mm/s which is a standard

Figure 4: (Color online) Magnetic phase diagram of EuPtSi3 determined
from the isothermal magnetization measured at various temperature.

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the heat capacity
of EuPtSi3. The two magnetic orderings are indicated by the arrow. (b)
_C_/_T_ versus T of EuPtSi3, the calculated entropy is shown as solid
line.

value for a Eu2+ compound and it increases to 3.2 mm/s at 19 K due to
the dynamic short-range order close to the first magnetic transition at
_T_N = 17 K. At 4.2 K, a magnetic hyperfine field of 33.0(5) T can be
derived from the spectrum, which is a standard value for the Fermi
contact interaction in Eu2+ materials. On increasing the temperature,
the hyperfine field decreases steadily, reaching 16.8(5) T at 16 K and
the lines are narrow, indicative of a commensurate magnetic order with a
single moment value (EM structure). At 17 K, the spectral shape changes
suddenly, as can be seen in Fig. 6: a broad distribution of hyperfine
fields is present at the nucleus sites. The spectrum can be fitted to a
Gaussian-shaped distribution but a physically more appealing
interpretation is the following: below 17 K, where the specific-heat
data shows its first anomaly, an incommensurate AM magnetic structure
develops, which yields a distribution of Eu2+ moments and hence of
hyperfine fields. The second peak at 16 K in the specific heat would
correspond to a lock-in transition to a commensurate wave vector, which
is not uncommon in intermetallic Eu or Gd compounds.[17] The fit at 17 K
shown in the figure corresponds to an incommensurate modulation but it
cannot be distinguished from that to a Gaussian shaped distribution.
However, it is difficult to understand why a broad Gaussian distribution
of hyperfine magnetic fields would appear at 17 K, if it were not
because of a phase transition yielding a specific moment distribution.
Indeed, it has been reported that such a "cascade" of transitions
(paramagnetic–incommensurate AM–commensurate EM) occurs for instance in
layered semimetallic EuAs₃ (Ref. [18]) below _T_N1 = 11.3 K and _T_N2 =
10.26 K, as well as in EuPdSb,[16] below _T_N1 = 18 K and _T_N2 = 12 K.
We therefore believe the Mossbauer and the heat-capacity data
corroborate each other quite well in demonstrating the presence of a
cascade of transitions in EuPtSi₃.

## IV Conclusion

Single crystals of EuPtSi₃ were grown by flux method and the magnetic
studies revealed antiferromagnetic transitions at _T_N1 = 17 and _T_N2 =
16 K. From the low-temperature isothermal magnetization measurements, we
found a spin-floplike transition at _H_c = 1 T for _H_|[001] and
spin-flip transitions at 5.9 T (9.2 T) for _H_|[001] ([100]). This shows
the presence of anisotropy, probably of both crystalline and exchange
origin. A magnetic phase diagram has been constructed based on the
isothermal magnetization data. The heat-capacity measurement also
confirms the occurrence of two magnetic transitions. Further, the
specific heat and Mossbauer data suggest that EuPtSi₃ undergoes a
cascade of close transitions (paramagnetic–incommensurate–commensurate)
as temperature decreases.

## References

* [1] N. Kumar, R. Nagalakshmi, R. Kulkarni, P. L. Paulose, A. K. Nigam,
S. K. Dhar, and A. Thamizhavel, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 012504 (2009). *
[2] A. I. Goldman, D. N. Argyriou, B. Ouladdiaf, T. Chatterji, A.
Kreyssig, S. Nandi, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R. J.
McQueeney, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 100506(R) (2008). * [3] A. S. Sefat, R.
Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **101**, 117004 (2008). * [4] Zhi Ren, Zengwei Zhu, Shuai Jiang,
Xiangfan Xu, Qian Tao, Cao Wang, Chunmu Feng, Guanghan Cao, and Zhu’an
Xu, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 052501 (2008). * [5] E. Bauer, R. T. Khan, H.
Michor, E. Royanian, A. Grytsiv, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, P. Rogl, D.
Reith, R. Podloucky, E.-W. Scheidt, W. Wolf, and M. Marsman, Phys. Rev.
B **80**, 064504 (2009). * [6] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, Ch.
Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A. Gribanov, Yu. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist,
and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * [7] N. Kimura, K.
Ito, K. Saitoh, Y. Umeda, H. Aoki, and T. Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**95**, 247004 (2005). * [8] I. Sugitani, Y. Okuda, H. Shishido, T.
Yamada, A. Thamizhavel, E. Yamamoto, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, T.
Takeuchi, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 043703
(2006). * [9] T. Kawai, H. Muranaka, M. A. Measson, T. Shimoda, Y. Doi,
T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, G. Knebel, G. Lapertot, D. Aoki, J. Flouquet, T.
Takeuchi, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 064716
(2008). * [10] R. Settai, Y. Miyauchi, T. Takeuchi, F. Levy, I. Sheikin,
and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 073705 (2008). * [11] T. Kawai,
Y. Okuda, H. Shishido, A. Thamizhavel, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, M.
Nakashima, T. Takeuchi, M. Hedo, Y. Uwa

Figure 6: (Color online) ¹⁵¹Eu Mossbauer absorption spectra at selected
temperatures in EuPtSi₃. The lines are fits to a single magnetic
hyperfine interaction at 4.2 and 16 K, to an incommensurate magnetic
modulation at 17 K and to a single Eu2+ line at 19 K.

toko, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 014710
(2007). * [27] T. Takeuchi, H. Muranaka, R. Settai, T. D. Matsuda, E.
Yamamoto, Y. Haga, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 085001
(2009). * [13] A. Herpin, _Theorie du magnetisme_ (Presses
Universitaires de France, Paris, France, 1968). * [14] A. Garnier, D.
Gignoux, D. Schmitt, and T. Shigeoka, Physica B **222**, 80 (1996). *
[15] W. Bauhofer, E. Gmelin, M. Mollendorf, R. Nesper, and H. G. Von
Schnering, J. Phys. C **18**, 3017 (1985). * [16] P. Bonville, J. A.
Hodges, M. Shirakawa, M. Kasaya, and D. Schmitt, Eur. Phys. J. B **21**,
349 (2001). * [17] J. A. Blanco, D. Gignoux, and D. Schmitt, Phys. Rev.
B **43**, 13145 (1991). * [18] T. Chattopadhyay, P. J. Brown, P.
Thalmeier, and H. G. v. Schnering, Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 372 (1986).
