Magnetic order induced by hydrogen in superconducting _R_Ba2Cu4O8 (_R_ =
Y,Gd) studied by Mossbauer and NQR techniques

I. Felner, U. Asaf, I. Nowik, and E. R. Bauminger

The Racah Institute of Physics, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem 91904,
Israel

L. Frenkel-Ben Yakar, S. D. Goren, and C. Korn

Department of Physics, Ben-Gurion University, Beer-Sheva 84105, Israel

H. Lutgemeier, S. Schmenn, and H. Schone

Institut fur Festkorperforschung, Forschungszentrum Julich, D-52425
Julich, Germany

1 July 1994

###### Abstract

Magnetic susceptibility, Mossbauer spectroscopy, nuclear quadrupole
resonance of Cu (NQR), nuclear magnetic resonance of Cu in the hyperfine
field of the antiferromagnetic state (AFNMR), and x-ray diffraction
measurements were performed to study the superconducting and magnetic
properties of hydrogen charged bulk YBa2Cu4O8H7. For y < 1 the c lattice
parameter decreases with y. In contrast to Fe-doped YBa2Cu4O8H7, where
T_(c) decreases continuously with increasing y, we find here that for 1

## Introduction

In the high-_T__c_ superconducting cuprates Fe generally substitutes at
the Cu sites. It is generally accepted that partial substitution of Fe
for Cu in YBa2(Cu1-_x_Fe_x_)3O7 (Y123) induces an
orthorhombic-tetragonal phase transition and progressively reduces
T_(c). For Fe concentration exceeding x = 0.13, the materials are not
superconducting.1,2 Some contradictory results are reported in the
literature concerning the distribution of Fe over the two Cu sites in
Y123. However, Mossbauer spectroscopy studies (MS) on 57Fe show that Fe
atoms are found to occupy predominantly the Cu(1) site with an
increasing fraction occupying the Cu(2) sites as the total amount of Fe
increases. Since iron replacing Cu2+, is either Fe3+ or even Fe4+, it
attracts oxygen to maintain charge neutrality. It was suggested that
several different oxygen coordinations exist around the Fe residing in
the Cu(1) site. The Mossbauer spectra above 90 K for the oxygen-rich
superconducting material is composed of three or four doublets
corresponding to these Fe sites, which are immediately identified by
their isomer shifts and quadrupole splittings.3-5 When oxygen is
depleted the Y123 loses its superconducting properties and for YBa2Cu3O6
the Cu(2) sites become antiferromagnetically ordered at T_(N) = 420 K.
All Fe atoms residing in this site, have a five-fold pyramidal
coordination. When Cu becomes magnetically ordered, it produces an
exchange field at the Fe located at the Cu(2) sites, leading to a
well-defined sextet in the Mossbauer spectra. The magnetic hyperfine
field at this site at 4.1 K is 505(5) kOe. We have shown that whenever
various cations are doped in sites outside the Cu(2) planes in a
sufficient amount to make superconductivity disappear, a static
long-range antiferromagnetic ordering of spins at the Cu(2) sites is
induced.6 The effect of hydrogen doping on the superconducting
properties of Y123 has been studied extensively. We have shown7 that in
YBa2Cu2.94Fe0.06O7H7, T_(c) is reduced with increasing y and
superconductivity is suppressed for y = 1.3. An analysis of the
Mossbauer spectra shows that for this y value the Cu(2) sites become
antiferromagnetically ordered at T_(N) = 420 K, in a very similar way as
caused by the removal of oxygen. The phase diagram in the H-doped
materials is similar to the well-known phase diagrams obtained in a wide
family of cationic substitution in Y123.

The structure of YBa2Cu4O8 (Y124) is closely related to Y123 but with
one additional CuO chain in the unit cell. Each unit cell contains two
Cu-O chains [denoted Cu(1)], with four-fold square-planar coordination
of oxygen and two CuO2 planes [denoted Cu(2)] with a five-fold pyramidal
coordination of oxygen. Partial substitution of Fe for Cu in
YBa2(Cu1-_x_Fe_x_)4O8 sharply reduces T_(c) which is totally suppressed
for x > 0.04.8 In contrast to Y123 the Mossbauer spectrum when T > 90 K
for 0.005 < x < 0.025 consists of a single quadrupole doublet, with a
splitting of D = _eqQ_/2 = 0.8(1) mm/s and an isomer shift of 0.3 mm/s
[Fig. 3(c)]. The site assignment of this doublet is not straightforward.
In recent papers we attributed this doublet to iron ions which reside in
the Cu(1) sites. Our assumption is based on the fact that for T < 30 K a
well-defined sextet appears,9 suggesting that these samples exhibit
coexistence of superconductivity in the Cu(2) planes and magnetic order
in the Cu(1) chains. For x > 0.05, an additional sextet appears in the
Mossbauer spectra indicating that magnetic order is formed in the Cu(2)
sites. Thus, the Y124 system behaves similarly to the Y123 system
discussed above.

An alternative (and less preferable) way is to assume that Fe in Y124
resides preferentially in the Cu(2) sites.10,11 Supporting evidences for
this determination are (1) the similarity of the values of the hyperfine
parameters of this doublet to the values corresponding to Fe in the
Cu(2) sites of Y123.2-4 (2) The sharp decrease of T_(c) caused by Fe
doping. However, if Fe enters the Cu(2) sites, it is very hard to accept
that at low temperatures, one obtains superconductivity and magnetic
order in the same planes. Recent NQR measurements on x = 0.005 and 0.01
Fe-doped Y124 samples show that the presence of Fe affects dramatically
both Cu(1) and Cu(2) sites.12 Thus, the location of Fe in the Y124
system remains unclear.

Here, detailed studies on the effect of hydrogen charging on the
superconducting and magnetic properties of ceramic Y124 are reported.
The main subject addressed here is the hydrogen-induced magnetic order
in Y124, in a way which is similar to that obtained by other
substitutions in this structure. Recently, the antiferromagnetic state
was also detected by _us_ measurements.13 In contrast to the Fe-doped
Y123 system,7c remains constant and the shielding fraction decreases
sharply with the increase of the amount of H. Using the Mossbauer
technique on 1 at.

## EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS

YBa2(Cu0.99Fe0.01)4O8 was prepared by solid-state reaction of
stoichiometric mixture of the constituent oxides, in high oxygen
pressure following the procedure described in Ref. 7. First, Y(123) was
prepared by conventional methods and the Y(124) phase was obtained by
sintering the Y(123) with CuO at 850 degC for 15 h at _P_(O2) = 150-200
atm. X-ray-diffraction studies confirmed the purity of the compound. For
Mossbauer studies, hydrogen absorption in 1 at.

Magnetic dc measurements on powder materials in 10 Oe as a function of
temperature, in the zero-field-cooled process, were carried out in a PAR
vibrating sample magnetometer, and determined T_(c) and the shielding
fraction (SF) of the samples. Mossbauer spectroscopy (MS) was performed
using of a 100 mCi ⁵⁷Co:Rh source, with a constant acceleration mode
spectrometer. The spectra at various temperatures were least-square
fitted with several subspectra corresponding to different sites in the
materials.

NMR and NQR studies at 1.2 and 4.2 K were performed using a standard
pulse spectrometer in zero external field. The frequencies were scanned
in discrete steps and the intensity was measured by spin-echo
techniques.

## EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

### The effect of hydrogen on the lattice parameters

X-ray powder measurements on YBa2(Cu0.99Fe0.01)4O8H9 samples indicate
that they are single phases. Least-squares refinement of the
orthorhombic crystallographic unit-cell parameters yield for y = 0, a =
3.833 A, b = 3.873 A, and c = 27.28 A, in complete agreement with Ref.
8. The a and b crystallographic axes are independent of y, while the c
axis decreases for 0 < y < 1 and then increases for y > 1 (Fig. 1). For
comparison, the effect of hydrogen on the c lattice parameter in H-doped
in Y123 is also shown. It can be seen that for 0 < y < 1 both systems
behave similarly, however for y > 1 the c axis in Y123 remains constant
and yields the pseudocubic structure a = b = c /3.15 On the other hand,
for Gd124H9 all the unit-cell parameters expand with hydrogen loading
and the lattice parameters for y = 0 are a = 3.874 A, b = 3.887 A, and c
= 27.14 A and a = 3.912 A, b = 3.927 A, and c = 27.75 A for y = 2.

### de magnetization studies

Figure 2 shows the susceptibility curves as a function of temperature
for YBa2(Cu0.99Fe0.01)4O8H9.

It is readily

Figure 1: The effect of hydrogen on the c lattice parameter in Y12

observed that T_(c) = 59(1) K is obtained for all samples measured
regardless of hydrogen concentrations. This value is in perfect
agreement with Ref. [8]. However, it differs from results obtained for
YBa₂(Cu_(0.99)Fe_(0.01))₃O₇H_(y),7 where increasing the hydrogen
concentration causes T_(c) to decrease and for y > 1 superconductivity
is totally suppressed. The relatively high SF observed for y= 0 gives
strong evidence for bulk superconductivity of this material. A sharp
reduction in the SF is observed for H1 and H2 materials. The SF numbers
listed in Fig. 2 have to be taken with caution. (1) The dc measurements
were not performed at the same time and there is some uncertainty in the
applied field values. (2) The reduction in the diamagnetic SF also can
be explained by geometric effects in the size of the powder particles
caused by hydrogen loading. However, the same T_(c) for all samples and
the reduced SF in H1 and H2 (which contains 1.85 H/f.u.) may indicate a
phase separation into superconducting and magnetic regions. We suggest
that hydrogen atoms are not randomly distributed and that 2 H//f.u.) are
needed to destroy completely superconductivity (in those unit cells
where hydrogen is accumulated). Magnetic ordering is induced in those
cells and the rest of the sample is unaffected by the presence of H and
remains superconducting. The site location of H in the crystal structure
is not known. In the light of the present picture, the relative amounts
of the magnetic phases deducted from the Mossbauer studies, can be
easily explained.

### The antiferromagnetism: Mossbauer studies (MS)

It is well accepted that Fe in Y(124) resides preferentially in one of
the crystallographic sites, namely, Cu(1) or Cu(2). The results
presented here can be explained by either of the two possibilities. For
Fe concentrations exceeding 4 at.

#### 1. Mossbauer studies of Y(124) with H = 0

For all low-iron-doped concentrations studied8,9 (0.5-2.5 at.

Figure 3: Mössbauer spectra at 90 K for YBa₂(Cu_(0.99)Fe_(0.01))₄O₈H_(y)
and of H1 at 370 K (note the expanded scale in upper part of the
figure).

Figure 2: The temperature dependence of the susceptibility measured at
10 Oe in the zero-field-cooled process for
YBa₂(Cu_(0.99)Fe_(0.01))₃O₇H_(y) materials. SF is the diamagnetic
shielding fraction deducted at 4.2 K.

to Y(123), all iron ions are equivalent in terms of oxygen environment
and therefore only one doublet is observed.

At 4.2 K the MS spectra (not shown) for low Fe concentration 0.5-1 at.

According to magnetization measurements, this sample is superconducting
below T_(c) = 27 K. Nevertheless it exhibits a well-defined magnetic
sextet below 30 K. The saturated hyperfine field at 4.2 K is 461(2) kOe
and the effective quadrupole interaction is −0.4 mm/s, just
$- \frac{1}{2}$ of the value obtained at T > 90 K, proving that the
ordered magnetic moments lie perpendicular to the electric-field
gradient–the c axis. Thus, this sample exhibits coexistence of
superconductivity in the Cu(2) planes and antiferromagnetism of Fe in
the Cu(1) chains in almost the same temperature range.

#### 2.2 Mossbauer studies of H2 sample

The hydrogen concentration in this sample is 1.85 atom/(f.u.) and a
small (SF = 3

The detailed computer analysis of the spectrum obtained at 4.2 K (Fig.
4) shows that the magnetic pattern is composed of two magnetic sextets
with I.S. = 0.42(2) mm/s which account for 72

The same general picture holds for the MS measured at higher
temperatures, but the relative amount of the dou

Figure 4: Mössbauer spectra of H2 below and above T_(N) = 360 K (note
the expanded scale in upper part of the figure).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the average normalized hyperfine
field for H2. The solid line is the theoretical curve for Fe-Cu exchange
strength (see text).

blet increases at the expense of the magnetic pattern which reduces to
57

The temperature dependence of H_(eff) for the two magnetic sextets has
the same shape. The variation of the normalized average H_(eff) values,
as a function of the reduced temperature, is exhibited in Fig. 5. It was
shown theoretically,[16] that for all Fe-doped Y(123) based materials,
the normalized H_(eff) values fall on one universal curve, regardless of
Fe or oxygen concentration and whether Y is replaced by Pr. The model
assumes that the temperature dependence of the magnetization of Cu and
Fe³⁺ as a probe, behave like spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ and spin-$\frac{1}{2}$
systems and that the Fe-Cu exchange is only 26

The feature of the MS measured at 373 K (above T_(N)) is noteworthy. One
would expect that similar to Fig. 3(c) both sextets will collapse to one
doublet, since all Fe are equivalent in terms of oxygen environment.
Unexpectedly, Fig. 4 shows that the high hydrogen concentration in first
or second close neighbor positions to Fe lead to different quadrupole
interactions. Consistent with the three subspectra observed at low
temperatures, we fitted the spectrum at 373 K with three doublets. The
major doublet (44

#### iii.3.3 **Mossbauer studies of H1 sample**

This material contains one hydrogen atom per formula unit and its SF is
intermediate between the uncharged and H2 samples (Fig. 2). The magnetic
pattern observed in the MS is similar to that of H2 but with smaller
intensity. Both H1 and H2 materials have the same T_(N). The comparison
between the MS at 90 K for all samples studied is exhibited in Fig. 3.
The magnetic pattern for H1 [Fig. 3(b)], which accounts for 39

### **NQR studies on GdBa₂Cu₄O₄H_(1.96)**

NQR technique provides a complementary direct method to MS, to study the
different quadrupole splittings of the two Cu sites in Y124. Natural Cu
contains two isotopes, ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu both with nuclear spin of I=
$\frac{1}{2}$. We mention here only the lines of the ⁶³Cu isotope. The
frequency lines of the less abundant ⁶⁵Cu (31

The NQR spectra of Y124 at 1.2 and 4.2 K are quite similar. On the other
hand, the antiferromagnetic transition of the Gd sublattice at
(T_(N)=2.2 K) in pure Gd124, induces a difference in the spectra below
and above T_(N) [Fig. 6(a)], which permits separation of the NQR lines
of Cu(1) from Cu(2). At 1.2 K the two signals at 20.3 and 31 MHz, are
readily observed but at 4.2 K the latter peak disappears. Above
T_(N)(Gd), the Cu(2) nuclei are severely distorted by the fast
relaxation of the nearby paramagnetic Gd moments, and the 31-MHz line is
suppressed. At 1.2 K the magnetically ordered Gd moments do not relax
the Cu(2) sites and the full spectrum of both sites is obtained. Thus,
only the lines corresponding to Cu(1) ap pear at 4.2 K.17 At 1.2 K, no
systematic difference is found in the NQR lines of Y124 and Gd124.

The NQR spectra vary with hydrogen loading. Figure 6(b) exhibits the NQR
spectra of GdBa₂Cu₄O₈H_(1.96) at 1.6 and 4.2 K, and all the lines are
attributed to the Cu(1) sites. The smeared peaks at low frequencies are
a result of unloaded Gd124 material. Hydrogen (2 H/f.u.) shifts the
20.3-MHz peak of Cu(1) to 27 MHz, in a very similar way as observed in
the Y123-H system.18; 19 This line is very close to the frequency for Cu
in Cu2O, suggesting local reduction of Cu caused by hydrogen. The
narrowness of this line may indicate some long-range order of the
hydride configuration in the Cu(1) planes. There is no x-ray evidence
for the Cu2O phase, and we are convinced that the 27-MHz line belongs to
the host material. The peak at 35.5 MHz [Fig. 6(b)] probably belongs to
Cu(1) with different hydrogen concentration with higher quadrupole
splitting. This line was also observed in the Y123-H (Ref. 19) system
but not so clear as here.

Figure 7 shows the AFNMR spectrum of GdBa₂Cu₄O₈H_(1.96) at the
high-frequency region. This spectrum is found only at 1.2 and not at 4.2
K and therefore must be related to Cu(2) sites as described above. This
supports our assumption that magnetic ordering in the Cu(2) planes is
induced by hydrogen in those unit cells where 2 H/f.u. is accumulated.
Fe serves only as a probe and the presence of 1

Summarizing the data shown in this paper, we may say with high
confidence that in both H1 and H2, charging of hydrogen leads to phase
separation to superconducting and magnetically ordered regions. The
fraction of the magnetic phase (T_(N) = 360 K) depends strongly on
hydrogen concentration. NQR-AFNMR studies show clearly that the induced
magnetic order is confined to the Cu(2) planes. We assume that the main
effect of hydrogen is the reduction of charge carrier concentration
which leads to suppression of superconductivity.20 The present study
shows that the hydrogen-doped Y(124) system behaves in a way similar to
other high-T_(c) superconductors, namely, in compositions which are not
superconducting, a long-range magnetic ordering is induced. The magnetic
state in this system is not induced by depletion of oxygen, since in
Y124 the oxygen concentration is fixed and not affected by hydrogen
charging.

Footnote 20: The AFNMR spectrum of GdBa₂Cu₄O₈H_(1.96) at 1.2 K.

###### Acknowledgements.

The research is supported by the Israel Academy of Sciences and
Humanities, and by the Klachky foundation for Superconductivity. We are
indebted to our colleagues from the University of Konstanz who supplied
us the Y124 + H sample used for their μsr experiments for our Cu NQR and
AFNMR studies.

## References

* (1) P. H. Hor _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 1891 (1987). * (2) D.
Hechel, I. Nowik, E. R. Bauminger, and I. Felner, Phys. Rev. B **42**,
2166 (1990). * (3) M. E. Lines and M. Eibbshutz, Physica C **166**, 235
(1990). * (4) I. S. Lybutin _et al._, Physica C **195**, 383 (1992). *
(5) P. Boolchand and D. Daniel, in _Studies of High Temperature
Superconductors_, edited by A. V. Narlikar (Nova Science, Commack, NY,
1990), Vol. 4, p. 143. * (6) F. Felner _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**65**, 1945 (1990). * (7) I. Felner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 10
368 (1991). * (8) I. Felner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 8737
(1991). * (9) I. Felner _et al._, Hyper. Inter. **70**, 1163 (1992). *
(10) Y. Wu, S. Pradhan, and P. Boolchand, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3184
(1991). * (11) H. J. Bornemann _et al._, Physica C **199**, 130
(1992). * (12) H. Luetgemeier (private communication). * (13) H.
Glueckler _et al._, Z. Phys. Chem. **179**, 389 (1993). * (14) M.
Mehring _et al._, in _Phase Separation in Cuprate Superconductors_,
edited by K. A. Muller and G. Benedek (World Scientific, Singapore,
1993), p. 61. * (15) I. Harrington _et al._, Physica C **266**, 255
(1994). * (16) I. Nowik _et al._, Solid State Commun. **74**, 957
(1990). * (17) T. Heimna, H. Luetgemeier, H. Pekker, G. Krabbes, and M.
Buebiester, Appl. Magn. Reson. **3**, 689 (1992). * (18) H. Schone, H.
Luetgemeier, and Y. Xu (unpublished). * (19) S. D. Goren, C. Korn, H.
Riesemeier, and K. Lueders, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 2821 (1993). * (20) G.
Dortmann _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 600 (1994).
