# Chemical doping and high-pressure studies of layered β-PdBi₂ single
crystals

Kui Zhao,¹ Bing Lv,^(1,)1 Yu-Yi Xue,¹ Xi-Yu Zhu,^(1, 2) L. Z. Deng,¹
Zheng Wu,¹ and C. W. Chu^(1, 3)

¹Texas Center for Superconductivity and Department of Physics,
University of Houston, Houston, Texas 77204-5002, USA

²Department of Physics, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China

³Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA

Footnote 1: Present address: Department of Physics, University of Texas
at Dallas, Richardson, TX 75080; blv@utdallas.edu

###### Abstract

We have systematically grown large single crystals of the layered
compounds β-PdBi₂, and both the hole-doped PdBi_(2 − x)Pb_(x) and the
electron-doped Na_(x)PdBi₂, and studied their magnetic and transport
properties. Hall effect measurements on PdBi₂, PdBi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2), and
Na_(0.05)PdBi₂ show that the charge transport is dominated by electrons
in all of the samples. The electron concentration is substantially
reduced upon Pb doping in PdBi_(2 − x)Pb_(x) and increased upon Na
intercalation in Na_(x)PdBi₂, indicating effective hole doping by Pb and
electron doping by Na. We observed a monotonic decrease of the
superconducting transition temperature (T_(c)) from 5.4 K in undoped
PdBi₂ to less than 2 K for x > 0.35 in hole-doped PdBi_(2 − x)Pb_(x).
Meanwhile, a rapid decrease of T_(c) with Na intercalation is also
observed in the electron-doped Na_(x)PdBi₂, which is in disagreement
with the theoretical expectation. In addition, both the
magnetoresistance and Hall resistance further reveal evidence for a
possible spin excitation associated with Fermi surface reconstruction at
∼50 K in the Na-intercalated PdBi₂ sample. The complete phase diagram is
thus established from hole doping to electron doping. Meanwhile, a
high-pressure study of the undoped PdBi₂ shows that the T_(c) is
linearly suppressed under pressure with a dT_(c)/dP coefficient of −0.28
K/GPa.

pacs: 74.25.-q, 74.62.-c, 74.70.Ad + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **92**, 174404 (2015)

## I Introduction

Low-dimensional compounds, with simple structure building motifs and
weak bonding force between layers, have generated much research interest
within condensed matter physics over the past several decades. These
low-dimensional materials have displayed a variety of unusual physical
phenomena such as charge density waves in transition metal chalcogenides
[1,2]; spin density waves in the parent Fe pnictide superconductors
[3,4]; topological order in Bi₂Se₃[5,6]; and superconductivity in many
compounds such as MgB₂[7], doped ZrNCl [8], etc. In the binary Pd-Bi
alloy family, several phases with different structures have been studied
in the past [9]; in this family the PdBi₂ is found to crystallize in two
different layered structures with a low-temperature α phase below 380
degC and a high-temperature β phase between 380 and 490 degC [10]. The
α-PdBi₂ crystallizes in a layered monoclinic (c2/m) structure with a
six-coordinated PdBi₆ building motif, while the β-PdBi₂ forms a layered
tetragonal CuZr₂-type structure (I4/mmm) with an eight-coordinated PdBi₈
building motif. Every four Bi atoms in β-PdBi₂ are face shared with the
neighboring CsCl-type PdBi₈ motif and therefore form a PdBi_(8/4) =
PdBi₂ layer. The resulting PdBi₂ layers are packed alternately and form
the body-centered tetragonal structure, as shown in the inset of Fig.
1(a). The interlayer spacing between the alternating PdBi₂ layers is
rather large, with interlayer Bi-Bi distance of ∼3.8 A, indicating that
there is no effective bonding between those layers. Various phases in
the Pb-Bi system have been identified as superconductors [11], such as
α-PdBi with T_(c)∼ 3.8 K, α-PdBi₂ with T_(c)∼ 1.73 K, β-PdBi₂ with
T_(c)∼ 4.25 K, and Pd_(2.5)Bi_(1.5) with T_(c)∼ 3.7-4 K. Early studies
showed that β-PdBi₂ had the highest T_(c) among these phases, 4.25 K
[11], and it was recently shown that the T_(c) could be further raised
to 5.4 K by improving the sample quality [12]. However, neither the
details of the chemical doping nor the high-pressure effect are well
known in β-PdBi₂. The prior specific heat and STM studies on β-PdBi₂
suggest that it is a multiband superconductor [12,13], which is in
agreement with the results from first-principles calculations [14].
Theoretical calculation shows that the density of states (DOS) around
the Fermi level is dominated by the Pd 4d and Bi 6 ρ states, and that
the Fermi level is located on a positive slope below a DOS peak.
Therefore, hole doping is expected to shift the Fermi level away from
the DOS peak, resulting in a decrease of the DOS at the Fermi level,
while electron doping will increase it. Thus one would expect a decrease
of T_(c) upon hole doping and an increase of T_(c) under electron
doping. Under this motivation, we decided to carry out systematic hole
doping (substitution of Bi with Pb) and electron doping (Na
intercalation) studies on the β-PdBi₂ system. However, we found that the
T_(c) was suppressed in both cases, the reasons for which will be
discussed in this paper. Meanwhile, a high-pressure study was also
carried out on the β-PdBi₂ single crystal, and we observed a suppression
of T_(c) upon applying pressure with a dT_(c)/dP coefficient of −0.28
K/GPa. The phase diagrams, both upon chemical doping and under high
pressure, are presented.

## II Experimental details

The β-PdBi₂ single crystals were synthesized through a melt-growth
method. Stoichiometric amounts of Pd and Bi grains were sealed in an
evacuated quartz tube, which was heated up to 700 degC, kept for 10 h,
and then slowly cooled to 450degC over 30 h. In order to retain the β
phase, the tube was then quenched in iced water directly from 450 degC.
Similarly, it was attempted to grow a series of PdBi_(2 − x)Pb_(x) (x =
0.0, 0.08, 0.15, 0.20, 0.28, 0.35, 0.40 0.60, 0.80, and 1.0) crystals
with stoichiometric amounts of Pd, Bi, and Pb. In addition, the
Na_(x)PdBi₂ compounds were grown by mixing Na and the previously
obtained PdBi₂ precursor, followed by the same synthetic conditions but
using a carbon-coated quartz tube to prevent the possible reaction of
sodium with the quartz tube at high temperature. The carbon coating of
the quartz tube was found to be intact after the synthesis, indicating
the success of the growth. X-ray powder diffraction was performed on the
powdered Pb-doped single crystals at room temperature from 10^(∘) to
90^(∘) using a Panalytical X’pert diffractometer. The actual chemical
compositions were determined by wavelength-dispersive spectrometry (WDS)
on a JEOL JXA-8600 electron microprobe analyzer. At least six
well-separated points across the crystal were measured to confirm the
homogeneity of the dopants. The dc magnetic susceptibility was measured
as a function of temperature, χ(T), using a Quantum Design magnetic
property measurement system (MPMS) down to 2 K. Electrical resistivity
as a function of temperature, ρ(T), and field, ρ(H), was measured by
employing a standard four-probe method using a Linear Research LR400 ac
bridge operated at 15.9 Hz in a Quantum Design physical property
measurement system (PPMS) up to 7 T and down to 1.9 K. High-pressure
resistivity measurements with a four-lead technique using the LR-400
resistance bridge were made in a Be-Cu pressure cell using Fluorinert
FC77 as the pressure medium. A lead manometer was used to measure the
pressure μ sin with the LR400 inductance bridge [15]. The Hall
resistivity measurements were performed in the PPMS system with fields
up to 5 T using the five-lead technique, which balanced the longitudinal
resistance at close to zero.

## III Results and discussion

β-PdBi₂ single crystals with shining metallic luster, typical size of 5
mm, and preferred orientation along the c axis after cleavage, could be
obtained through the melt-growth technique, as shown in Fig. 1(a). The
calculated lattice parameter c [12.963(3) A] is consistent with previous
reports [12]. A representative SEM image of the undoped β-PdBi₂ single
crystal is also shown as the inset of Fig. 1(a). Both resistivity and
magnetization measurements have shown that the superconducting
transition temperature of the as-grown β-PdBi₂ crystal is 5.4 K,
indicating the improved quality of the grown crystals as also pointed
out by previous reports [12]. The resistivity curve exhibits a hump
below 150 K and a minor downturn around 50 K, as shown in Fig. 1(b),
suggesting possible strong electron/spin correlation in this compound.

Figure 2 shows the powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns with Miller
indices of the crushed crystals for the Pb-doped PdBi_(2 − x)Pb_(x)
(x = 0.08, 0.15, 0.20, 0.28 0.35, and 0.40) samples. Except for a few
minor peaks of the α phase present at low doping level, namely,
x = 0.08, all of the peaks are well indexed into the β-PdBi₂-type
body-centered tetragonal structures in all of the samples with different
doping levels. These crystals are quite stable outside the glovebox for
several months. Due to the close radius sizes between Pb and Bi, the
change of lattice parameter upon Pb doping is very small, and a gradual
decrease of the lattice parameter from 12.963(3) A for x = 0 to
12.940(2) A for x = 0.4 is observed, but the

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) XRD pattern of β-PdBi₂ with preferred
orientation along c axis; the inset shows the crystal structure and one
representative crystal SEM image. (b) Resistivity of β-PdBi₂ from 2 to
300 K; the inset displays resistivity data between 4 and 6 K.

Figure 2: (Color online) The powder x-ray diffraction patterns of
PdBi_(2 − x)Pb_(x) with Miller indices. The patterns are vertically
offset for better clarity. Some minor impurity peaks from the α phase
are marked as *.

overall lattice parameter change is less than 0.2

Systematic resistivity and magnetization measurements were carried out
for all samples with different doping levels. As shown in Fig. 3(a), the
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) of PdBi_(2 − x)Pb_(x)
continuously decreases upon Pb substitution, from 5.4 K for x= 0, to 4.9
K for x= 0.08, 4.4 K for x= 0.15, 3.8 K for x= 0.20, 2.5 K for x= 0.28,
and 2.2 K for x= 0.35. The sample eventually becomes nonsuperconducting
above 2 K when the doping level reaches x= 0.40. The superconducting
transition width (10

Similar consistent results were obtained through magnetic susceptibility
measurements as shown in Fig. 3(b). The magnetization was measured under
an applied magnetic field of 2 Oe on randomly oriented small crystals
with typical mass ∼20 mg packed in gelatin capsules. All of the samples
with doping level 0 <x< 0.35 exhibit substantial diamagnetic shifts at
the lowest temperature. The shielding fractions 4πχ are close to or
exceed 1 without the demagnetization factor correction, which implies
the bulk superconducting nature of these samples. Consistent with the
resistivity data, the superconducting transition temperature
systematically moves downward with doping from 5.2 K for x= 0 to 2 K for
x= 0.40.

To confirm the effective hole doping by Pb substitution, Hall effect
measurements have been carried out to evaluate the charge carrier
concentration for the parent compound PdBi₂ and a representative
Pb-doped PdBi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2) sample (Fig. 4). The raw Hall resistivity
values $\rho_{\rm H}$ are linear with the field, with negative slopes
for both samples. To further eliminate the effect of possible
misalignment of the Hall electrodes, the Hall coefficient $R_{\rm H}$
was taken as
$R_{\rm H}=[R_{\rm H}(5\ {\rm T})+R_{\rm H}(-5\ {\rm T})]/2$ at each
temperature. The inset of Fig. 4 shows the Hall coefficient of PdBi₂
from 6 to 300 K. The Hall coefficient is negative over the whole
temperature range and only weakly depends on temperature, suggesting
that electron-type charge carriers dominate the charge transport. The
value of the Hall coefficient changes by <30

The Hall resistivities of the parent compound and the Pb-doped sample
under different magnetic fields at 10 K are shown in Fig. 4, where one
can see that the contribution

Figure 4: (Color online) Hall resistivity of β-PdBi₂ and
PdBi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2) under a magnetic field at 10 K; the inset shows the
Hall coefficient $R_{\rm H}$ of β-PdBi₂ from 6 to 300 K.

Figure 3: (Color online) The resistivity (a) and magnetic susceptibility
(b) data under H = 2 Oe of PdBi_(2 − x)Pb_(x) with x= 0–0.35 from 2 to 7
K.

from magnetoresistance is rather small. The Hall coefficients
$R_{\rm H}$, determined by the slopes of the curves, are
$R_{\rm H}=-4.24\times 10^{-4}$ cm³/C and
$R_{\rm H}=-1.12\times 10^{-3}$ cm³/C for PdBi₂ and PdBi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2),
respectively. The negative Hall coefficient of the Pb-doped sample
indicates that the charge carriers are still dominated by electrons. By
simply using the single-band expression $n=1/R_{\rm H}q$, we can
calculate the electron concentrations: n = 1.47 × 10²² cm⁻³ for PdBi₂
and n = 5.56 × 10²¹ cm⁻³ for PdBi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2). The substantial
decrease of electron concentration suggests effective hole doping in the
PdBi₂ system through Pb substitution at the Bi site. This effective hole
doping might shift the Fermi level, resulting in a lower electronic
density of states. Therefore, the lower DOS might contribute to the
decrease of T_(c) if a rigid-band model is adopted.

Since the hole doping by Pb substitution caused decrease of T_(c), we
also attempted to carry out Na intercalation, which would introduce
electrons into the system. Several trials with nominal Na concentration
ranging from x = 0.1 to x = 0.4 on Na₂PdBi₂ were made. X-ray powder
diffraction analysis on the resulting bulk materials reveals that some
small impurities (less than 10

To verify whether the DOS does increase through Na intercalation, a Hall
measurement was carried out on the Na_(0.057)PdBi₂ sample to probe the
change of charge carrier concentration. As for PdBi₂, the Hall
coefficient $R_{\rm H}$ above 50 K is T insensitive for the
Na-intercalated sample, as shown in Fig. 5(a). Therefore, the electron
concentrations for PdBi₂ and Na_(0.057)PdBi₂ are calculated based on the
$R_{\rm H}$ at 50 K as 1.58 × 10²² cm⁻³ and 3.09 × 10²² cm⁻³,
respectively. There is apparently a significant increase of the carrier
concentration, which is also in line with the decrease of the
room-temperature resistivity observed in Fig. 5(b). The deduced dρ/dT at
300 K decreases from 0.37 μΩ cm/K for PdBi₂ to 0.20 μΩ cm/K for
Na_(0.057)PdBi₂. The Na intercalation, therefore, does introduce
electrons and enhance the DOS as expected. The suppression of T_(c) has
to be attributed to other mechanisms.

It is well known that both the competing excitations and the impurity
scattering (especially pair-broken scattering) may suppress
superconductivity. To explore the issue, both the magnetoresistance and
the $R_{\rm H}$ are investigated (Fig. 5). The Hall coefficient
$R_{\rm H}$ is enhanced almost by a factor of 3 on cooling below 50 K
[Fig. 5(a)]. As demonstrated previously (Fig. 4 inset), the multiband
effect has trivial interference effects on the $R_{\rm H}$ for the
undoped PbBi₂. The unexpected enhancement of the $R_{\rm H}$ in the
Na-intercalated sample can hardly be attributed to the multiband effect,
but is more likely caused by certain spin-related
scattering/excitations. For example, Han _et al._ have observed that the
$R_{\rm H}$ of SrFeAsF significantly increased with cooling below
150-160 K with the spin-density-wave transition around 173 K [16]. Such
an interpretation seems to be supported by both the resistivity and the
magnetoresistivity [Fig. 5(b)] data. However, it should be noted that
these are rather general characteristics of all spin
ordering/excitations. For instance, an anomalous Hall effect and
colossal magnetoresistance are observed in the manganites such as
La_(1 − x)Ca_(x)MnO₃[17, 18]. To explore the situation in
Na_(0.057)PdBi₂, the R(T) above 70 K is fitted as a quadratic function
of T [the solid red line in Fig. 5(b)], where the R drop

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) The Hall coefficient $R_{\rm H}$ of
Na_(0.057)PdBi₂ from 5 to 300 K; the inset shows the magnetic
susceptibility of Na_(0.057)PdBi₂. (b) Magnetoresistivity of
Na_(0.057)PdBi₂ from 2 to 300 K (solid black squares, zero field; green
crosses, 7 T); The solid red line is only a guide for the eyes. The
inset is the ratio of the change in the magnetoresistance [ρ(7 T) − ρ(0
T)]/ρ(0 T) to the magnetic field.

below 50 K is evident. The R(T) under a magnetic field of 7 T, in
particular, is much higher than that under 0 T [Fig. 5(b) inset] with
the deduced ∂ln  R/∂ H ≈ 0.05/T at 10 K. The enhanced hump feature, the
large magnetoresistance, and the increased amplitude of the Hall
coefficient below 50 K suggest a Fermi surface reconstruction and
excitation/ordering in the spin section around 50 K induced by Na
doping. Thus the suppressed superconductivity in Na-intercalated PdBi₂
could be attributed to the competing spin excitation associated with the
Fermi surface reconstruction, although the exact nature of this spin
excitation needs further investigation.

Based on the above data, we were able to construct the phase diagram of
T_(c) as a function of doping level (both hole and electron doping) as
shown in Fig. 6. At the right side of the phase diagram (hole doping),
the T_(c) decreases continuously with Pb doping. The suppression of
T_(c) can be understood as a decrease of the DOS at the Fermi level
caused by hole doping. At the left side of the figure, we demonstrate
that the T_(c) is also quickly suppressed by a small amount of Na
intercalation. The cause of this T_(c) suppression might be attributed
to the emergence of possible spin exciation, which may compete for the
ground state and be counterproductive in stabilizing the superconducting
state.

To further examine the above conjectures based on doping, we
investigated the pressure effect on the undoped PbBi₂ with the highest
T_(c) of this series by measuring the temperature dependence of
resistivity under pressures up to 16.63 kbar, as shown in Fig. 7. As the
applied pressure increases, the normal-state resistivity considerably
decreases. A closer look at the low temperature part, as shown in Fig.
7(b), reveals that the superconducting transition becomes slightly
sharper, and is gradually suppressed, upon applying pressure at a linear
suppression rate of dT_(c)/dP = −0.28 K/GPa. At 16.63 kbar, the T_(c) is
reduced to 4.9 K. To verify the stability of the sample, the pressure
cell was unloaded to lower pressure and ambient pressure. The
corresponding data are denoted as (u) in Fig. 7(b). We observed that
superconducting transition T_(c) values measured upon loading and
unloading the pressure cell fell along the same line, proving the
stability of the sample in the pressure cycle. The corresponding phase
diagram of T_(c) versus pressure is shown in the inset of Fig. 7(b). The
suppression of T_(c) by pressure appears to be consistent with the
doping experiment.

## IV Conclusions

In summary, we have systematically grown large single crystals of the
layered compounds β-PdBi₂, the hole-doped PdBi_(2 − x)Pb_(x), and the
electron-doped Na_(x)PdBi₂, and studied their magnetic and transport
properties. Hall measurements on PdBi₂, PdBi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2), and
Na_(0.057)PdBi₂ show that the charge transport is dominated by electrons
in all of the samples. The electron concentration is substantially
reduced upon Pb doping in PdBi_(2 − x)Pb_(x) and increased upon Na
intercalation in Na_(x)PdBi₂, indicating effective hole doping by Pb and
electron doping by Na. In Pb-doped PdBi₂, we observed a monotonic
decrease of T_(c) from 5.4 K in undoped PdBi₂ to

Figure 6: (Color online) The phase diagram for both hole- and
electron-doped PdBi₂. SC, superconducting transition temperature
determined resistively; PM, paramagnetic state; “SE,” possible spin
excitation induced by Na intercalation.

Figure 7: (Color online) (a) The resistivity of β-PdBi₂ from 1.2 to 300
K under high pressure. (b) The normalized resistivity under different
pressures, where u denotes the unloaded pressure run. The inset shows
the shift of T_(c) with pressure for β-PdBi₂.

less than 2 K for x > 0.35. The monotonic decrease of the T_(c) upon
doping can be explained by the reduced DOS at the Fermi level. In
Na-intercalated samples, a rapid decrease of T_(c) with a slight
Na-intercalation level is also observed, which is in contradiction with
the theoretical expectation. Both the magnetoresistance and Hall
measurements further reveal evidence for a possible competing spin
excitation at ∼50 K, which could contribute to the suppression of the
T_(c) in Na-intercalated samples. Meanwhile, application of external
pressure up to 16.63 kbar on the undoped PdBi₂ also suppresses the
superconducting transition linearly with a dT_(c)/dP coefficient of
−0.28 K/GPa, consistent with the doping experiments.

###### Acknowledgements.

The work in Houston, Texas, is supported, in part, by U.S. Air Force
Office of Scientific Research Grant No. FA9550-09-1-0656, the T.L.L.
Temple Foundation, the John J. and Rebecca Moores Endowment, and the
State of Texas through the Texas Center for Superconductivity at the
University of Houston.

## References

* [1] J. A. Wilson, F. J. Di Salvo, and S. Mahajan, Adv. Phys. **24**,
117 (1975). * [2] G. Gruner, Rev. Mod. Phys. **60**, 1129 (1988). * [3]
C. dela Cruz, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, J. Li, W. Ratcliff, J. L. Zarestky,
H. A. Mook, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. C. Dai, Nature
(London) **453**, 899 (2008). * [4] X. F. Wang, T. Wu, G. Wu, H. Chen,
Y. L. Xie, J. J. Ying, Y. J. Yan, R. H. Liu, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **102**, 117005 (2009). * [5] H. Zhang, C. X. Liu, X. L. Qi, X.
Dai, Z. Fang, and S. C. Zhang, Nat. Phys. **5**, 438 (2009). * [6] Y.
Zhang, K. He, C. Z. Chang, C. L. Song, L. L. Wang, X. Chen, J. F. Jia,
Z. Fang, X. Dai, W. Y. Shan, S. Q. Shen, Q. Niu, X. L. Qi, S. C. Zhang,
X. C. Ma, and Q. K. Xue, Nat. Phys. **6**, 584 (2010). * [7] J.
Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu,
Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [8] S. Yamanaka, H. Kawaji, K.
Hotehama, and M. Ohashi, Adv. Mater. **8**, 771 (1996). * [9] N. N.
Zhuravlev, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **32**, 1305 (1957). * [10] H. Okamoto,
J. Phase Equilib. **15**, 191 (1994). * [11] B. T. Matthias, T. H.
Geballe, and V. B. Compton, Rev. Mod. Phys. **35**, 1 (1963). * [12] Y.
Imai, F. Nabeshima, T. Yoshinaka, K. Miyatani, R. Kondo, S. Komiya, I.
Tsukada, and A. Maeda, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 113708 (2012). * [13]
E. Herrera, I. Guillamon, J. A. Galvis, A. Correa, A. Fente, R. F.
Lucas, F. J. Mompean, M. Garcia-Hernandez, S. Vieira, J. P. Brison and
H. Suderow, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 054507 (2015). * [14] I. R. Shein and
A. L. Ivanovskii, J. Supercond. Novel Magn. **26**, 1 (2013). * [15] C.
W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **33**, 1283 (1974). * [16] F. Han, X. Zhu, G.
Mu, P. Cheng, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 180503 (2008). * [17]
P. Schiffer, A. P. Ramirez, W. Bao, and S-W. Cheong, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**75**, 3336 (1995). * [18] P. Matl, N. P. Ong, Y. F. Yan, Y. Q. Li, D.
Studebaker, T. Baum, and G. Doubinina, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 10248
(1998).
