# Compressibility of Ce_M_In₅ and Ce₂MIn₈ (_M_ = Rh, Ir, and Co)
compounds

Ravhi S. Kumar and A. L. Cornelius

Department of Physics, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada
89154-4002, USA

J. L. Sarrao

Materials Science and Technology Division, Los Alamos National
Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA

Received 3 May 2004; revised manuscript received 27 September 2004;
published 29 December 2004

###### Abstract

The lattice parameters of the tetragonal compounds Ce_M_In₅ and
Ce₂_M_In₈ (_M_ = Rh, Ir, and Co) have been studied as a function of
pressure up to 15 GPa using a diamond anvil cell under both hydrostatic
and quasi-hydrostatic conditions at room temperature. The addition of
_M_In₂ layers to the parent CeIn₃ compound is found to stiffen the
lattice as the 2-layer systems (average of bulk modulus values B0 is
70.4 GPa) have a larger B0 than CeIn₃ (67 GPa), while the 1-layer
systems are even stiffer (average of B0 is 81.4 GPa). Estimating the
hybridization using parameters from tight binding calculations shows
that the dominant hybridization is _fp_ in nature between the Ce and In
atoms. The values of _Vpf_ at the pressure where the superconducting
transition temperature _Tc_ reaches a maximum is the same for all
Ce_M_In₅ compounds. By plotting the maximum values of the
superconducting transition temperature _Tc_ versus _c/a_ for the studied
compounds and Pu-based superconductors, we find a universal _Tc_ versus
_c/a_ behavior when these quantities are normalized appropriately. These
results are consistent with magnetically mediated superconductivity.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.70.214526 [PACS number(s): 61.10.Nz,
62.50.+p, 51.35.+a, 71.27.+a ]

## I Introduction

Ce based heavy fermion (HF) and antiferromagnetic (AF) compounds have
been the subject of intensive investigations due to their unconventional
magnetic and superconducting properties. In these compounds the
electronic correlations, the magnetic ordering temperature and the
crystal field effects are sensitive to pressure, and pressure induced
superconductivity near a quantum critical point (QCP) has been observed
in a variety of compounds such as CePd₃Si₂, CeCu₂Ge₂, CeRh₂Si₂ and
CeIn₃.[1, 2, 3, 4, 5] The appearance of superconductivity in these
systems and the deviation from Fermi liquid behavior as a function of
pressure are still challenging problems to be studied.

Ce_(n)M_In_(2n + 3) (_M_ = Rh, Ir, and Co) with n = 1 or 2 crystallize
in the quasi-two-dimensional (quasi-2D) tetragonal structures
Ho_(x)CoGa_(2n + 3).[6, 7] The crystal structure can be viewed as
(CeIn₃)_(n)(_M_In₂) with alternating n (CeIn₃) and (_M_In₂) layers
stacked along the _c_-axis. By looking at the crystal structure, we
would expect that AF correlations would develop in the cubic (CeIn₃)
layers in a manner similar to bulk CeIn₃.[8] The AF (CeIn₃) layers will
then be weakly coupled by an interlayer exchange interaction through the
(_M_In₂) layer leading to a quasi-2D magnetic structure. Indeed, in the
Rh compounds, the magnetic properties, as determined by
thermodynamic.[9] NQR,[10] and neutron scattering[11] are less 2D as the
crystal structure becomes less 2D going from single layer CeRhIn₅ to
double layer Ce₂RhIn₈ (note that as n  → ∞, one gets the 3D cubic system
CeIn₃). CeRhIn₅ and Ce₂RhIn₈ are antiferromagnets at ambient pressure
but are found to superconduct at high pressures.[12, 13, 14, 15] The
systems CeCoIn₅, CeIrIn₅, and Ce₂CoIn₈ display superconductivity at
ambient pressure.[13, 14, 16, 17, 18] The only member of the series that
does not display magnetic order or superconductivity at ambient
pressures is Ce₂IrIn₈ that is believed to be near a QCP.[19]

While not proven definitively, it is generally believed that the origin
of the superconductivity in Ce_(n)_M_In_(2n + 3) is magnetic in origin.
The value of the superconducting transition temperature _Tc_ in
magnetically mediated superconductors is believed to be dependent on
dimensionality in addition to the characteristic spin fluctuation
temperature. Theoretical models and experimental results suggest that
the SC state in CeRhIn₅ may be due to the quasi-two-dimensional (2D)
structure and anisotropic AF fluctuations which are responsible for the
enhancement of _Tc_ relative to CeIn₃.[20, 21] A strong correlation
between the ambient pressure ratio of the tetragonal lattice constants
_c/a_ and _Tc_ in the Ce_M_In₅ compounds is indicative of the
enhancement of the superconducting properties by lowering dimensionality
(increasing _c/a_ increases _Tc_).[20] In order to explain the evolution
of superconductivity induced by pressure and the suppression of AF
ordering, it is important to probe the effect of pressure on structure
for these compounds and look for possible correlations between
structural and thermodynamic properties.

Here we report on high pressure x-ray diffraction measurements performed
on Ce_(n)_M_In_(2n + 3) (_M_ = Rh, Ir and Co) with n = 1 or 2 up to 15
GPa under both hydrostatic and quasihydrostatic conditions. Previously,
we have reported results on CeRhIn₅;[22] we present a comparative study
of the complete set of Ce_(n)_M_In_(2n + 3) compounds with emphasis on
the behavior near the QCP. While there is no direct correlation between
_c/a_(_P_) and _Tc_(_P_) as an implicit function of pressure in an
individual system, the value of _c/a_ at the pressure where _Tc_ reaches
its maximum value DOES show linear behavior as previously
hypothesized.[20] Also, the _pf_ hybridization _Vpf_ between the Ce and
In atoms is the dominant hybridization in these compounds and takes on
the same value for all Ce_M_In₅ compounds at the pressure _P_max where
_Tc_ reaches its maximum value. These results will be compared to
isostructural Pu compounds and all of the results are consistent with
unconventional, magnetically mediated superconductivity.

## II Experiment

Ce_(n)_M_In_(2n + 3) single crystals were grown by a self-flux technique
described elsewhere.[23] The single crystals were crushed into powder
and x-ray diffraction measurements show the single phase nature of the
compound. In agreement with previous results,[23, 24] the crystals were
found to have tetragonal symmetry with cell parameters in agreement with
literature values.

The high pressure x-ray diffraction (XRD) experiments were performed
using a rotating anode x ray generator (Rigaku) for the quasihydrostatic
runs and synchrotron x-rays at HPCAT, Sector 16 at the Advanced Photon
Source for hydrostatic measurements. The sample was loaded with NaCl or
ruby powder as a pressure calibrant and either a silicone oil or 4:1
methanol:ethanol mixture (hydrostatic) or NaCl (quasihydrostatic) as the
pressure transmitting medium in a Re gasket with a 180 μm diameter hole.
High pressure was achieved using a Merrill-Basset diamond anvil cell
with 600 μm cutlet diameters. The XRD patterns are collected using an
imaging plate (300 x 300 mm²) camera with 100 ×100 μm² pixel dimensions.
XRD patterns were collected up to 15 GPa at room (T=295 K) temperature.
The images were integrated using FIT2D software.[25] The structural
refinement of the patterns was carried out using the Rietveld method on
employing the FULLPROF and REITICA (LHPM) software packages.[26]

## III Results and Discussion

In Fig. 1 we show the XRD patterns for CeCoIn₅ obtained at ambient
pressure and a hydrostatic pressures of 4.2 GPa with silicone oil used
as the pressure transmitting media. In other measurements, diffraction
peaks from the Re gasket, pressure markers (NaCl) and the sample are all
observed. The known equation of state for NaCl[27] or the standard ruby
fluorescence technique[28] was used to determine the pressure. The
refinement of the XRD patterns was performed on the basis of the
Ho_(α)CoGa_(2n + 3) structure with the P4/mmm space group (No. 123).
When comparing the crystallographic data and bulk modulus of CeIn₃
relative to Ce_(n)_M_In_(2n + 3) it is evident that the Ce atom in
Ce_(n)M_(12n + 3) experiences a chemical pressure at ambient
conditions,[9, 12] leading one to expect the Ce_(n)_M_In_(2n + 3) to be
less compressible than CeIn₃ as the bulk modulus increases with
increasing pressure.

The V(P) data have been plotted in Fig. 2 for CeMIn₅ (M= Rh, Ir, and Co)
and Fig. 3 for Ce₂_M_In₅ (M= Rh or Ir) for both quasihydrostatic and
hydrostatic measurements (the data for CeRhIn₅ has been previously
reported[22]). Note that the vertical and horizontal scales are the same
for all graphs. Unfortunately, we have not had success growing single
crystals of Ce₂CoIn₅, though others have reported successful growth of
single crystals.[18] Since the maximum volume compression is only of the
order of 10

$$P = \frac{B_{0}}{B_{0}^{\prime}}\Bigg{[}\frac{\left(\frac{V_{0}}{V(P)}\right)^{ R_{0}^{\prime}}}{V(P)} - 1\Bigg{]},$$

where B₀ is the initial bulk modulus and B₀^(′) is the pressure
derivative of B₀. For the room temperature (T=295 K) data V/V₀ data
shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the values of B₀ and B₀^(′) and the initial
linear compressibilities κ_(a) and κ_(c) calculated below 2 GPa are
given in Table I. First, we note that the n =2 compounds show more
anisotropy (κ_(a) is 15-20

Figure 1: X-ray diffraction patterns of CeCoIn₅ at ambient pressure and
a hydrostatic pressure of 4.2 GPa. The data were taken using synchrotron
radiation of wavelength λ=0.37214 Å. The various reflections from
CeCoIn₅ are labeled and one peak due to excess In flux is noted.

HF systems.[30, 31, 32, 33] The fact that we see no discernible
difference between the hydrostatic and quasihydrostatic measurements is
likely due to the nearly isotropic compressibilities.

Figures 2 and 3 also show the ratio of the lattice constants c/a as a
function of pressure. The systems display a wide range of behavior from
the apparent double peaked structure in CeRhIn₅ to the single peaked
structure in CeCoIn₅ to a monotonic decrease for the other systems.
Vertical dashed lines show the pressure where a maximum in T_(c)(P) has
been observed: 2.4 GPa for CeRhIn₅,[12, 14] 1.4 GPa for CeCoIn₅,[34, 35]
2.9 GPa for CeIrIn₅,[36] and 2.4 GPa for Ce₂RhIn₅[15]

As mentioned, a strong correlation between the ambient pressure c/a
ratio and T_(c) in the CeMIn₅ compounds has been observed (increasing
c/a increases T_(c)).[20] This can be seen in Fig. 4 that is adapted
from Pagliuso _et al.[20]_ (Note that we

Figure 3: Normalized volume V/V₀ and ratio of tetragonal lattice
constants c/a plotted versus pressure for Ce₂MIn₅ compounds at room
temperature. Data for both quasihydrostatic (open symbols) and
hydrostatic (closed symbols) are displayed. The solid line through the
volume data is a fit as described in the text. The dashed vertical lines
in the c/a plots show the pressure where the maximum value of T_(c) is
observed. The solid lines in the c/a plots are guides for the eye.

Figure 2: Normalized volume V/V₀ and ratio of tetragonal lattice
constants c/a plotted versus pressure for CeMIn₅ compounds at room
temperature. Data for both quasihydrostatic (open symbols) and
hydrostatic (closed symbols) are displayed. The solid line through the
volume data is a fit as described in the text. The dashed vertical lines
in the c/a plots show the pressure where the maximum value of T_(c) is
observed. The solid lines in the c/a plots are guides for the eye.

have corrected a labeling error found in Pagliuso _et al._[20] where two
systems are labeled as CeCo_(0.5)Ir_(0.5)In_(5.)) However, some
discrepancies exist, namely magnetic systems like CeRhIn₅ whose _c/a_
ratio of 1.62 would lead one to erroneously conclude that
superconductivity near 1.0 K should be observed, rather than the
experimentally observed AF order at 3.8 K. The reason for this
discrepancy can be seen if one considers theoretical treatments of
magnetically mediated superconductivity.[21] Calculations show that
superconductivity occurs at a QCP where long range magnetic order is
suppressed and the infinite range magnetic correlations give way to
short range magnetic correlations that are responsible for the
superconductivity. Recent work has shown a similar sort of behavior when
a system is near a valence instability and critical density fluctuations
give rise to superconductivity.[37] In either of theses scenarios, one
then finds T_(c)(P) behavior that displays the experimentally observed
inverse parabolic behavior with the maximum value of T_(c) becoming
larger as correlations become more 2D in character. Slight deviations
from the inverse parabolic behavior observed in CeRhIn₅ on the high
pressure side[38] may be indicative of density fluctuations or a
"hidden" 3D magnetically ordered state.[39] In the magnetic fluctuation
scenario, the maximum value of T_(c)(P) is found at a pressure
$P_{\rm max}$ and depends on the spin fluctuation temperature T_(sf) and
the dimensionality of the magnetic interactions. The maximum possible
values of T_(c) will occur for more 2D systems with the highest possible
value of T_(sf). This leads to the natural conclusion that the correct
quantities to plot are not the ambient pressure ones, but rather the
value of T_(c) at $P_{\rm max}$ and the corresponding value of _c/a_.
Note that while one should use the structural information near T_(c), we
have shown that the _c/a_ versus P behavior is similar at room
temperature and near T_(c) leading to the conclusion that the room
temperature lattice constants can be used for our analysis.[22] This has
been done in Fig. 4 where the filled circles correspond to the _c/a_
ratios from the current study where T_(c) reaches its maximum value at
$P_{\rm max}$ taken from the literature.[12, 14, 34, 35, 36] As can be
seen, CeRhIn₅ now fits in with the rest of the data quite well. Also,
CeIrIn₅ and CeCoIn₅ both have their values of T_(c) and _c/a_ enhanced
from their ambient pressure values. Note that all of the points from the
current study lie on or above the line. These results are consistent
with theory and it would be of great interest to measure more values of
the maximum T_(c) as a function of _c/a_ at that pressure to look for
universal behavior.

To conclude that the dependence of T_(c) on _c/a_ in Fig. 4 is due
mainly to dimensionality, it is necessary to prove that T_(sf) does not
change drastically for the various compounds. To estimate T_(sf), we
have used the tight binding approximation of Harrison to calculate the
hybridization V_(pf) between the Ce (or Pu) _f_-electrons and In (or Ga)
_p_-electrons and V_(df) between the Ce _f_-electrons and M atom
_d_-electrons. As T_(sf) ∝ exp (−1/V²), the hybridization can be
directly linked to T_(sf). It can be shown that the pf and df
hybridization are given by

$$V_{pf}=\eta_{pf}\frac{\hbar^{2}}{m_{e}}\frac{\sqrt{r_{f}r_{f}^{5}}}{d^{6}},$$
(2)

$$V_{df}=\eta_{df}\frac{\hbar^{2}}{m_{e}}\frac{\sqrt{r_{a}^{3}r_{f}^{5}}}{d^{6}},$$

where η is a constant (for σ bonds, η_(pf)=10$\sqrt{21}$/π, η_(df)
=450$\sqrt{35}$/π); m_(e) is the mass of an electron; r_(p), r_(sh) and
r_(f) are tabulated electron wave function radii for a particular atom;

Figure 4: The ambient pressure values of the superconducting transition
temperature versus the room temperature value of _c/a_ (open circles)
for various CeMIn₅ compounds. Also shown (solid circles) are the values
of _c/a_ determined at room temperature at the pressure $P_{\rm max}$
where T_(c)(P) displays a maximum. The line is a least squares fit to
the ambient pressure values.

c c c c c c c System & n & V₀ (Å³) & _c/a_ & B0 (GPa) & B₀^(′) &
κ_(c)(10⁻³ GPa⁻¹) & κ_(c)(10⁻³ GPa⁻¹)
CeRhIn₅ & 1 & 163.03 & 1.621 & 78.4 ± 2.0 & 5.60 ± 0.62 & 3.96 ± 0.08 &
4.22 ± 0.10
CeIrIn₅ & 1 & 163.67 & 1.612 & 87.6 ± 2.0 & 5.04 ± 0.58 & 3.44 ± 0.06 &
3.48 ± 0.08
CeCoIn₅ & 1 & 160.96 & 1.638 & 78.2 ± 1.8 & 3.94 ± 0.41 & 4.35 ± 0.08 &
3.43 ± 0.16
Ce₅RhIn₅ & 2 & 266.48 & 2.624 & 71.4 ± 1.1 & 3.85 ± 0.31 & 4.20 ± 0.04 &
4.85 ± 0.11
Ce₂IrIn₈ & 2 & 266.26 & 2.610 & 69.4 ± 1.7 & 5.73 ± 0.52 & 4.02 ± 0.06 &
4.93 ± 0.12
CeIn₃ & ∞ & 103.10 & 1 & 67.0 ± 3.0 & 2.5 ± 0.5 & 4.98 ± 0.13 & 4.98 ±
0.13

Table 1: Summary of the determined bulk modulus B₀ and its pressure
derivative B₀^(′) as determined from fits to the Murnaghan equation for
the Ce_(n)MnIn_(2n + 3) compounds. Also listed are the ambient pressure
values of V₀ and _c/a_ along with the initial linear compressibilities
κ_(a) and κ_(a). Values for CeIn₃ are taken from Vedel _et al._ (Ref.
[29]).

and d is the distance between the atoms in question.[40, 41, 42, 43] We
tabulate ambient pressure values along with values at the pressure where
T_(c) reaches its maximum value $P_{\rm max}$ of both the _fp_ (V_(fp))
and the _df_ (V_(df)) hybridization, summing over all nearest neighbors,
in Table 2. Note that though we have done the calculation only for σ
bonds, the inclusion of bonding with higher m quantum numbers will
simply multiply the final result by a constant (that should
approximately be the same for all members of an isostructural series).
From Table 2, it is evident that V_(pf)>V_(df) for all of the compounds.
This is consistent with the electronic structure calculations of Maehira
_et al._ that consider the _fp_ hybridization only and get good
agreement to measured Fermi surfaces.[46] This dominance of the _fp_
hybridization also gives a natural explanation to some facts regarding
the robustness of superconductivity. For M site substitution,
superconductivity is robust and exists for numerous CeMIn₅
compositions.[20, 47] Substitution of Sn for In, however, has been shown
to rapidly suppress superconductivity in CeCo(In_(1→)Sn_(x))₅.[48] These
results show that the M atom serves mainly to affect the spacing between
the Ce and In atoms that determine the hybridization, and the
sensitivity to Sn substitution shows that disorder of the Ce - In
strongly perturbs the _pf_ interactions leading to superconductivity.

For the CeMIn₅ series, the V_(pf) values increase in the order Rh → Ir →
Co. One expects the important parameter describing the magnetic
interaction to be the magnetic coupling J∝V². This is consistent with a
Doniach model[49, 50] of the competition between the nonmagnetic Kondo
state and the magnetic RKKY state shown schematically in Fig. 5 which
qualitatively captures the pressure dependent behavior in CeMIn₅
compounds. After a system has reached its maximum magnetic ordering
temperature, the magnetic order is rapidly suppressed and the system
moves toward a QCP. This type of behavior has been seen in numerous Ce
compounds.[51, 52, 53] Near the QCP, many different behaviors can be
observed. For the CeMIn₅ compounds, superconductivity with a
characteristic inverse parabolic shape is observed. As shown by the
dotted line, magnetic order may or may not coexist in regions with
superconductivity. In Fig. 5, the compounds were placed from left to
right in order of increasing V_(pf). The location was chosen to agree
with the measured behavior of all three compounds. Namely, CeRhIn₅ is an
antiferromagnet at ambient pressure while CeIrIn₅ and CeCoIn₅ are
ambient pressure superconductors, and all three display a maximum in
T_(c) as a function of pressure. The inverse parabolic shape of T_(c) is
consistent with the behavior expected for magnetically mediated
superconductivity, where the height of the maximum depends on the
hybridization and the dimensionality.[21] The larger maximum value of
T_(c) as a function of pressure for CeCoIn₅ with larger c/a (and hence
more 2D character) relative to CeIrIn₅ then follows naturally. From Fig.
5, one would expect that the pressure to reach the maximum in T_(c)
would increase in order Rh → Ir → Co. Surprisingly, both Rh and Ir
display the maximum at about the same pressure of 2.4 GPa. This can be
explained, however, by noting that CeIrIn₅ has the larger bulk modulus
so that while the pressure is the same, the volume change is
considerably less. A more reasonable variable to use than pressure would
be the hybridization V. From Table 2, the value for the hybridization at
the pressure $P_{\rm max}$ where T_(c) reaches its maximum value is
nearly identical for all three CeMIn₅ compounds. This gives strong
support for the magnetically mediated superconductivity scenario as one
would expect that the maximum value of T_(c) would occur for
approximately the same value of V and variations in T_(c) would then be
attributed to differences in dimensionality. We note that the values of
V_(pf) for the Ce₂MIn₅ compounds is very similar to the CeMIn₅ compounds
and the progression of increasing V_(pf) being Rh → Ir → Co; this is
consistent with the progression of ground states from magnetic order
(Rh) to heavy fermion (Ir) to superconductivity (Co) in the Ce₂MIn₅
series. This is in line with the experimental finding of very similar
electronic specific heat coefficients γ∝1/T_(sf)^(∞) exp(1/V²).[24, 54,
55] Also, in a scenario of magnetically mediated superconductivity, the
most obvious route to higher T_(c) values would be to raise the value of
T_(sf) by switching to actinide compounds with larger r_(f) values, and
hence hybridization relative to rare earths. The affect of moving to the
actinides is seen in PuCoGa₅ that has V_(pf)∼ 2.6 times larger than the
corresponding Ce compounds.

Recently, Pu based superconductivity was observed for the first time in
PuCoGa₅ above 18 K, an order of magnitude

Figure 5: Schematic phase diagram for the CeMIn₅ compounds showing the
competition between magnetic order and superconductivity. For small
values of the hybridization V², the magnetically ordered state (dashed
line) is favored. As pressure is applied, systems move to the right in
the diagram and the magnetically ordered state gives away to
superconductivity (solid lines). The approximate ambient pressure
position is shown for various CeMIn₅ materials. The superconducting
curve for CeRhIn₅ lies between the CeIrIn₅ and CeCoIn₅ curves.

larger than the Ce compounds that also have the HoCoGa₅ structure.[56]
It was subsequently shown by Wastin _et al._ that a similar universal
linear behavior of T_(c) versus c/a is observed in PuMGa₅ compound with
nearly the same logarithmic slope as the CeMIn₅ compounds.[44, 57] While
this may at first seem a surprising result, in fact it follows straight
from the theoretical conclusions that T_(c) should scale as a
characteristic temperature T^(*) ≈  T_(pf). That the value T_(c) is an
order of magnitude larger in Pu based compared to Ce based compounds
then is a consequence of a value of T_(sf) that is an order of magnitude
larger in Pu compounds. This estimate is reasonable in light of the
previous discussion showing a significantly larger value of V_(pf) in
the Pu compounds remembering that T_(sf) ∝ exp (−1/V²), and also because
the electronic specific heat coefficient γ is an order of magnitude
smaller in Pu compounds relative to Ce compounds and T_(sf) ∝ 1/γ.[56]
We also note that the Ce₂MIn₈ compounds at ambient pressure do not seem
to not follow the linear T_(c) versus c/a behavior as only Ce₂CoIn₈
displays superconductivity at ambient pressure. However, Ce₂RhIn₈, like
CeRhIn₅, magnetically orders at ambient pressure but the application of
pressure reveals superconductivity. To further analyze these systems, we
plot normalized values of T_(c) versus Δc/a in Fig. 6, where T_(c) is
normalized by T* and Δ(c/a) is found by subtracting a value (c/a)*.
T^(*) was chosen as 2 K for CeMIn₈ and Ce₂MIn₈ as it is approximately
T_(sf) for CeCoIn₈.[58] and as discussed previously, we do not expect
much variation in T_(sf) for these compounds. T* = 20 K was used for
PuMGa₅ as we expect an order of magnitude increase in T_(sf) for Pu
compounds relative to Ce compounds. (c/a)* was chosen in such a way to
shift the curves on top of each other. The values of T* and (c/a)* are
given in Table 3. The normalized values are plotted in Fig. 6. The
universality is readily apparent with all of the pressure points lying
on or above the straight line. That the points lie on or above the line
for the ambient pressure points is likely due to higher values of T_(sf)
for the optimal pressure data relative to ambient pressure data
rendering the assumption of a single T^(*) value to normalize all data
tenuous. The ambient pressure "misplacement" of Ce₂RhIn₈ (AF order at
ambient pressure) now can be explained by the pressure induced
superconductivity and the universal line now goes through the high
pressure Ce₂MIn₈ data. While Ce₂IrIn₈ does not display
superconductivity, the value of c/a reaches a nearly constant value
above 5 GPa and we have plotted a point assuming T_(c)= 0 at high
pressure. This assumption gains validity as these results would predict
that superconductivity will not be seen in Ce₂IrIn₈ under pressure as
Δ(c/a) falls below the x-intercept of the T_(c)/T* versus Δ(c/a) line.
Also, Ce₂CoIn₈ should see a dramatic enhancement of T_(c) under
pressure; if c/a doesn’t change as a function of pressure, this estimate
for the maximum in T_(c) would be around 3 K which is slightly larger
than what is seen in CeCoIn₈ under pressure.

## IV Conclusions

We have studied the elastic properties of Ce_(n)MIn_(2n + 3) (M = Rh,
Ir, and Co) with n= 1 or 2 under hydrostatic and quasi-hydrostatic
pressures up to 15 GPa using x-ray diffraction. The addition of MIn₂
layers to the parent CeIn₃ compound is found to stiffen the lattice. By
plotting the maximum values of the superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) versus c/a, we are able to expand upon the proposed
linear relationship between the quantities by Pagliuso _et al.[20]_ We
have also found that the dominant hybridization is between the Ce (or
Pu) f-electrons and In (or Ga) p-electrons V_(pf). Also, the value of
V_(pf) where T_(c) reaches its maximum is nearly identical for all three
CeMIn₅ compounds. These results explain the lack of superconductivity in
Ce₂IrIn₈ and predict that T_(c) should increase dramatically in Ce₂CoIn₈
at high pressure. Comparing the results to Pu-based superconductors
shows a universal T_(c) versus c/a behavior when these quantities are
normalized by appropriate quantities consistent with what is expected of
magnetically mediated superconductivity.

###### Acknowledgements.

Work at UNLV is supported by DOE EPSCoR-State/ National Laboratory
Partnership Grant No. DE-FG02-00ER45835. Work at LANL is performed under
the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy. HPCAT is a collaboration
among the UNLV High Pressure Science and Engineering Center, the
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, the Geophysical Laboratory of
the Carnegie Institution of

Figure 6: The ambient pressure values of T_(c)/T* versus the room
temperature value of Δ(c/a) (open symbols) for various
Ho_(x)CoGa_(2n + 3) based compounds; CeMIn₅ (circles), Ce₂MIn₈
(diamonds), and PuMGa₅ (squares) are all shown. Also shown (solid
symbols) are the values of Δ(c/a) determined at room temperature at the
pressure $P_{\rm max}$ where T_(c)(P) displays a maximum. The straight
line is the same as that shown in Fig. 4.

  --------- -------- --------
   System    T* (K)   (c/a)*
   CeMIn₅     2.0     1.620
   PuMGa₅      20     1.596
   Ce₂MIn₈    2.0     2.610
  --------- -------- --------

Table 3: Summary of the normalization values used to plot the data in
Fig. 6. T* is a characteristic temperature that is related to the spin
fluctuation or Kondo temperature. (c/a)* is chosen as described in text.

Washington, and the University of Hawaii at Manoa. The UNLV High
Pressure Science and Engineering Center was supported by the U.S.
Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration, under
Cooperative Agreement DE-FC08-01NV14049. Use of the Advanced Photon
Source was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of
Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, under Contract No.
W-31-109-Eng-38.

## References

* [1] F. Steglich, J. Aarts, C. D. Bredl, W. Lieke, D. Meschede, W.
Franz, and H. Schafer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **43**, 1892 (1979). * [2] D.
Jaccard, K. Behina, and J. Sierro, Phys. Lett. A **163**, 475 (1992). *
[3] R. Movshovich, T. Graf, D. Mandrus, J. D. Thompson, J. L. Smith, and
Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8241 (1996). * [4] F. M. Grosche, S. R.
Julian, N. D. Mathur, and G. G. Lonzarich, Physica B **223-224**, 50
(1996). * [5] N. D. Mathur, F. M. Grosche, S. R. Julian, I. R. Walker,
D. M. Freye, R. K. Haselwimmer, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London)
**394**, 39 (1998). * [6] Y. N. Grin, Y. P. Yarmolyuk, and E. I.
Gladyshevskii, Sov. Phys. Crystallogr. **24**, 137 (1979). * [7] Y. N.
Grin, P. Rogl, and K. Hiebl, J. Less-Common Met. **121**, 497 (1986). *
[8] J. M. Lawrence and S. M. Shapiro, Phys. Rev. B **22**, 4379
(1980). * [9] A. L. Cornelius, A. J. Arko, J. L. Sarrao, M. F. Hundley,
and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 14 181 (2000). * [10] N. J. Curro, P.
C. Hammel, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk,
Phys. Rev. B **62**, R6100 (2000). * [11] W. Bao, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L.
Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, J. W. Lynn, and R. W. Erwin, Phys. Rev.
B **62**, R14 621 (2000). * [12] H. Hegger, C. Petrovic, E. G.
Moshopoulou, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, Z. Fisk, and J. D. Thompson,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 4986 (2000). * [13] R. A. Fisher, F. Bouquet,
N. E. Phillips, M. F. Hundley, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, Z. Fisk,
and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 224509 (2002). * [14] T. Mito,
S. Kawasaki, G. q. Zheng, Y. Kawasaki, K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, D. Aoki,
Y. Haga, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 220507(R) (2001). * [15] M.
Nicklas, V. A. Sidorov, H. A. Borges, P. G. Pagliuso, C. Petrovic, Z.
Fisk, J. L. Sarrao, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 020506
(2003). * [16] C. Petrovic, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, R.
Movshovich, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, and P. Monthoux, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L337 (2001). * [17] C. Petrovic, R.
Movshovich, M. Jaime, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, Z.
Fisk, and J. D. Thompson, Europhys. Lett. **53**, 354 (2001). * [18] G.
Chen, S. Ohara, M. Hedo, Y. Uwatoko, K. Saito, M. Sorai, and I.
Sakamoto, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 2836 (2002). * [19] J. D. Thompson
_et al._, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **226**, 5 (2001). * [20] P. G.
Pagliuso, R. Movshovich, A. D. Bianchi, M. Nicklas, N. O. Moreno, J. D.
Thompson, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, and Z. Fisk, Physica B
**312-313**, 129 (2002). * [21] P. Monthoux and G. G. Lonzarich, Phys.
Rev. B **63**, 054529 (2001). * [22] R. S. Kumar, H. Kohlmann, B. E.
Light, A. L. Cornelius, V. Raghavan, T. W. Darling, and J. L. Sarrao,
Phys. Rev. B **69**, 014515 (2004). * [23] E. G. Moshopoulou, Z. Fisk,
J. L. Sarrao, and J. D. Thompson, J. Solid State Chem. **158**, 25
(2001). * [24] N. O. Moreno, M. F. Hundley, P. G. Pagliuso, R.
Movshovich, M. Nicklas, J. D. Thompson, J. L. Sarrao, and Z. Fisk,
Physica B **312-313**, 274 (2002). * [25] A. P. Hammersley, S. O.
Svensson, M. Hanfland, A. N. Fitch, and D. Hausermann, High Press. Res.
**14**, 235 (1996). * [26] J. Rodriguez-Carvajal, Physica B **192**, 55
(1993). * [27] J. M. Brown, J. Appl. Phys. **86**, 5801 (1999). * [28]
G. J. Piermarini, S. Block, J. D. Barnett, and R. A. Forman, J. Appl.
Phys. **46**, 2774 (1975). * [29] I. Vedel, A. M. Redon, J. M. Mignot,
and J. M. Leger, J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. **17**, 849 (1987). * [30] T.
Penney, B. Barbara, T. S. Plaskett, H. E. J. King, and S. J. LaPlaca,
Solid State Commun. **44**, 1199 (1982). * [31] I. L. Spain, F.
Steglich, U. Rauchschwalbe, and H. D. Hochheimer, Physica B **139-140**,
449 (1986). * [32] A. P. G. Kutty and S. N. Vaidya, in _Theoretical and
Experimental Aspect of Valence Fluctuations and Heavy Fermions_, edited
by L. C. Gupta and S. K. Malik (Plenum, New York, 1987), p. 621. * [33]
C. Wassilew-Reul, M. Kunz, M. Hanfland, D. Hausermann, C. Geibel, and F.
Steglich, Physica B **230-232**, 310 (1997). * [34] V. A. Sidorov, M.
Nicklas, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, Y. Bang, A. V. Balatsky, and J.
D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 157004 (2002). * [35] G. Sparn, R.
Borth, E. Lengyel, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, F. Steglich, and J. D.
Thompson, Physica B **319**, 262 (2002). * [36] T. Muramatsu, T. C.
Kobayashi, K. Shimizu, K. Amaya, D. Aoki, Y. Haga, and Y. Onuki, Physica
C **388-389**, 539 (2003). * [37] P. Monthoux and G. G. Lonzarich, Phys.
Rev. B **69**, 064517 (2004). * [38] T. Muramatsu, N. Tateiwa, T. C.
Kobayashi, A. Shimizu, K. Amaya, D. Aoki, H. Shishido, Y. Haga, and Y.
Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 3362 (2001). * [39] M. Nicklas, V. A.
Sidorov, H. A. Borges, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, and J. D. Thompson,
Phys. Rev. B **70**, 020505(R) (2004). * [40] W. A. Harrison,
_Electronic Structure and the Properties of Solids_ (Freeman, San
Francisco, 1980). * [41] W. A. Harrison, Phys. Rev. B **28**, 550
(1983). * [42] G. K. Straub and W. A. Harrison, Phys. Rev. B **31**,
7668 (1985). * [43] W. A. Harrison and G. K. Straub, Phys. Rev. B
**36**, 2695 (1987). * [44] F. Wastin, P. Boulet, J. Rebizant, E.
Colineau, and G. H. Lander, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **15**, S2279
(2003). * [45] Y. M. Kalychak, V. I. Zaremba, V. M. Baranyak, V. A.
Bruskov, and P. Y. Zavalii, Izv. Akad. Nauk. SSSR, Met. **1**, 209
(1989). * [46] T. Maehira, T. Hotta, K. Ueda, and A. Hasegawa, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **72**, 854 (2003). * [47] P. G. Pagliuso, C. Petrovic, R.
Movshovich, D. Hall, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, and Z.
Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 100503(R) (2001).

* [48] E. D. Bauer (private communication). * [49] S. Doniach, in
_Valence Instability and Related Narrow Band Phenomena_, edited by R. D.
Parks (Plenum, New York, 1977). * [50] S. Doniach, Physica B
**231-234**, 231 (1977). * [51] J. D. Thompson and J. M. Lawrence,
_Handbook on the Physics and Chemistry of Rare Earths_ (North-Holland,
Amsterdam, 1994), Vol. 19, Chap. 133, pp. 383-477. * [52] A. L.
Cornelius and J. S. Schilling, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 3955 (1994). * [53]
A. L. Cornelius, A. K. Gangopadhyay, J. S. Schilling, and W. Assmus,
Phys. Rev. B **55**, 14-109 (1997). * [54] A. L. Cornelius, P. G.
Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, and J. L. Sarrao, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 144411
(2001). * [55] J. D. Thompson _et al._, Physica B **329**, 446 (2003). *
[56] J. L. Sarrao, L. A. Morales, J. D. Thompson, B. L. Scott, G. R.
Stewart, J. R. F. Wastin, P. Boulet, E. Colineau, and G. H. Lander,
Nature (London) **420**, 297 (2002). * [57] F. Wastin, P. Boulet, E.
Colineau, J. Rebizant, G. H. Lander, J. D. Thompson, J. L. Sarrao and L.
A. Morales (unpublished). * [58] S. Nakatsuji, S. Yeo, L. Balicas, Z.
Fisk, P. Schlottmann, P. G. Pagliuso, N. O. Moreno, J. L. Sarrao, and J.
D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 106402 (2002).
