Vortex liquid in single-crystal YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Fe_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) of
varying anisotropy

Yu. Eltsev and O. Rapp

Department of Solid State Physics, The Royal Institute of Technology,
S-100 44 Stockholm, Sweden

1 December 1994; revised manuscript received 1 February 1995

###### Abstract

The vortex liquid has been studied in single-crystal
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Fe_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) in magnetic fields up to 8 T parallel
to the c axis both with a dc-flux transformer-contact configuration and
by measuring the c-axis resistivity. With current along the ab planes,
the c-axis resistance drops to zero and the voltages on different ab
planes become equal at a temperature T_(br)(B). With increasing
anisotropy, T_(br)(B) decreased in agreement with a recent theory by
Daemen _et al._ for a Josephson-coupled layered superconductor. The
results for current injection along the ab planes and along the c axis
are consistent with anisotropic local conductors for all samples.

The vortex dynamics of high-temperature superconductors displays unusual
features. One interesting question is the description of vortex motion
and dimensionality in the liquid regime, above a vortex melting
transition and below the thermodynamic critical field B_(c2)(T). When a
magnetic field [>B_(c1)(T)] is applied perpendicularly to the layers of
a high-T_(c) superconductor, one can envisage flux lines as tubes moving
under the Lorentz force with preserved shape. Alternatively vortices may
decouple and move independently in different ab planes of the crystal in
the form of a complicated entanglement and/or with the development of
pancakelike two-dimensional vortices.

The use of multiterminal contacts on opposite ab planes is a powerful
experimental technique to study these problems. In experiments with this
configuration on Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x) (Bi-2212) single crystals,[1, 2] it
was found that pancakelike vortices moving independently in different
layers of the crystal were developed at all magnetic fields
investigated, up to 5 T. Recently such experiments have been performed
also in [3, 4, 5] YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Y-123). A magnetic-field-dependent
temperature T_(br)(B), was found, below which vortices preserve their
integrity over the c-axis length of the sample. Above T_(br)(B) vortices
break up into thinner, quasi-two-dimensional objects with independent
motion in different ab planes, similar to the observations in Bi-2212
crystals.

Alternatively the interlayer coupling can be probed by the c-axis
resistivity. Daemen _et al.[6]_ considered a Josephson-coupled layered
superconductor. They found that above a decoupling field, the critical
current in the c direction is zero. This onset of c-axis resistivity was
found by Lopez _et al.[7]_ to roughly coincide with T_(br)(B).

The possibility of nonlocal resistivity in the vortex liquid has also
been pointed out.[8] Recent experiments would seem to confirm this
interpretation for Y-123 single crystals,[3] in contrast to the results
for Bi-2212 single crystals where all measured resistivities were well
described by Montgomery-type analysis assuming local electrodynamics.[1,
2]

In the present paper we study the interlayer coupling in a series of
Fe-doped Y-123 by current injections both in the ab plane and along the
c axis. Fe doping allows for variation of anisotropy and makes it
possible to compare the results in some detail with the theory of Daemen
_et al.[6]_ The magnetic field B_(br)(T) where vortices lose their
coherence over the c-axis length of the sample, was found to decrease
with increasing anisotropy. The onset of c-axis resistivity was
correlated with B_(br)(T) for all samples.

Sample preparation was described previously.[4] The Fe concentration was
determined in an analytical scanning electron microscope, and the T_(c)
was found to be in good agreement with results in the literature.[9] The
ab surface of the crystals was examined in an optical microscope under
polarized light. The observations were consistent with those made by
high-resolution electron microscopy.[10] The usual twinned structure was
observed for the undoped samples. At x = 0.065 we could not observe any
twins, and investigation with polarized light showed no in-plane
anisotropy. This suggests the presence of a tweedlike microstructure on
a scale below the resolution of an optical microscope. For the x = 0.035
sample, we observed both twinned regions with reduced twin boundary
separation and regions with apparent tweedlike microstructure. The
contact configuration is shown in Fig. 1, and is the same as used by
Safar _et al.[3]_

For anisotropic samples the resistivities must in general be calculated
from a Laplace equation. We used the series expansion obtained by Busch
_et al.[2]_ for the solution of

$$\frac{d^{2}V}{\rho_{ab}dx^{2}}+\frac{d^{2}V}{\rho_{c}dz^{2}} = 0.$$
(1)

ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) are the resistivities in the basal plane and along the
c axis (z), respectively. However, the accuracy is limited by the small
size of the crystals. Each contact strip was 0.1-0.15 mm wide leaving
only about 0.2 mm between contacts 2 and 3 (6 and 7) for measuring
voltages V₂₃ (V₆₇). Therefore three independent methods were used to
estimate resistivities from measured voltages and currents: (i) A
solution to Eq. (1) was obtained for current through 1 and 4 (I¹ ⁻ ⁴).
(ii) A corresponding solution was obtained from current

Figure 1: Definition of contact arrangement.

through 1 and 5 (I¹ ⁻ ⁵). (iii) Equation (1) was not applied. Nonuniform
current distribution was minimized by estimating ρ_(ab) from V₂₃ with
currents I¹ ⁻ ⁴ and I⁵ ⁻ ⁸, and ρ_(c) from V₂₆ with currents I¹ ⁻ ⁵,
I³ ⁻ ⁷, _and_I⁴ ⁻ ⁸. The current was 1 mA in all measurements, well
within the linear current-voltage region.

Sample properties are summarized in Table 1. The results for the
resistivities were obtained by method (i). The narrow transition widths
in zero field indicate homogeneous samples. For both undoped samples we
observed metalliclike temperature dependence of the normal-state
in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab) as well as of the out-of-plane resistivity
ρ_(c) , in agreement with recent results for Y-123 single crystals with
optimal oxygen concentration.[11]

The temperature dependence of ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) in zero magnetic field
for the Fe-doped samples is shown in the inset of the upper panel of
Fig. 2. ρ_(ab) increases somewhat with Fe concentration and, for
x = 0.065, shows pronounced deviations from linearity above T_(c).
ρ_(c)(T) is much more sensitive to the Fe content. The maximum value of
ρ_(c) for the x = 0.065 sample exceeds ρ_(c) for the undoped samples by
a factor of about 100, approaching ρ_(c) = 1.5Ω cm, observed for Bi-2212
single crystal.[12]

Qualitatively the resistive properties of Fe-doped samples in zero
magnetic field are similar to those observed for oxygen-deficient Y-123
single crystals.[11] The origin of a semiconductinglike ρ_(c)(T) is
still open. For our samples we cannot rule out that some variation in
oxygen content contributes to the observed anisotropy in addition to Fe
doping. However, for the context of the present paper, we note that a
variation of the anisotropy can be controlled by our method, and defer a
discussion of its detailed origin.

Figure 2 illustrates data obtained by method (iii) for the x = 0.035
sample. In this and some subsequent figures only one of four samples is
shown, but the results for all samples are similar (except for the
strongly varying ρ_(c)). In all cases the magnetic field was oriented
with ${\bf B}\|c$. With decreasing temperature close to T_(c) , R_(c)
goes through a maximum and starts to decrease at a lower temperature
than R_(ab) . In zero magnetic field R_(ab) and R_(c) approach zero
simultaneously, while for B > 0, R_(c) falls sharply below the
resolution limit of our instrument when R_(ab) is still > 0. The inset
of the lower panel in Fig. 2 shows R_(ab) and R_(c) at B = 0 and B = 2 T
on logarithmic scales.

This behavior is qualitatively similar to observations in artificially
layered MoGe/Ge materials[13] with resistance anisotropy of the order of
10⁴, where an abrupt drop of the out-of-plane resistivity at finite
in-plane resistivity was linked with a buildup of interlayer phase
coupling and the establishment of line vortices.

Another possibility to monitor the decoupling transition between layers
is to measure the potential drops on different ab-plane surfaces of the
crystal. Figure 3 illustrates the results at 2 T for the x = 0.035
sample. With current I¹ ⁻ ⁴, voltages V₂₃, V₆₇, and V₂₆ were measured.
At low temperatures, the equal magnitude of V₂₃ and V₆₇ shows that
vortices move with the same velocity in opposite ab planes of the
crystal. Above T_(br) the stronger increase of V₂₃ with increasing
temperature indicates a larger velocity of the vortices on top of the
crystal and a loss of vortex correlation along the c-axis direction due
to thermal disorder.

In spite of the strongly inhomogeneous current distribution in the dc
transformer-contact configuration, V₂₆ roughly measures R_(c) . In fact,
when V₂₆ starts to increase from zero it is found to scale closely with
the curve for R_(c) from Fig. 2. The results show that the smallest
measurable R_(c) is found near T_(br)(B), defined from[14]V₂₃  > V₆₇. In
line with a recent theoretical prediction[15] we thus find support for a
region in

Figure 2: Superconducting transition curves for
YBa₂(Cu_(0.968)Fe_(0.038))₃O_(7 − δ). Magnetic fields ∥c are from right
to left 0, 2, 4, 6, and 8 T in both panels. Inset top panel: Zero-field
temperature dependence for the x = 0.035 and 0.065 samples. Left-hand
scale ab-plane resistivity, right-hand scale, c-axis resistivity. Method
(iii) was used to estimate resistivities. Inset bottom panel: Basal
plane and c-axis resistances for the x = 0.035 sample at 0 and 2 T. Open
symbols: B = 0, closed symbols: B = 2 T, squares: R_(c) , circles:
R_(ab) . The logarithm in the inset is a base-10 logarithm.

the phase diagram above the irreversibility line $T_{\rm irr}(B)$, where
ρ_(c) = 0 and ρ_(ab) ≻ 0. A similar temperature range
$T_{\rm irr}(B)\!\prec\!T\!\prec\!T_{br}(B)$ was found [7] in pure Y-123
single crystals of varying thickness up to 60 μm.

With current in the ab planes, dissipation in the vortex liquid above
the irreversibility line is due to motion of unpinned vortices under the
Lorentz force. The absence of dissipation for current in the c-axis
direction shows that the vortices remain relatively straight, preserving
phase coherence between different layers. According to Daemen _et
al._[6] the dissipation along the c axis is initiated with increasing
temperature when the coherence is lost due to thermal disorder. In this
picture we can thus associate the decoupling line of Ref. 6 with
B_(br)(T) observed in our experiment.

The inset in Fig. 3 shows the phase boundary B = B(T_(br)/T_(c)) for
samples of varying Fe concentration. The curves were calculated with the
mass anisotropy ratio $\gamma\!\!=\!\sqrt{m_{c}/m_{ab}}$ as adjustable
parameter from the expression for B_(br)(T) for moderate anisotropy
(γ  < γ_(cr)  ∼ 60) given by Daemen _et al._[6]

$$B_{br}(T)\!=\!\frac{\Phi_{0}^{3}}{4\,\pi^{2}\mu_{0}sek_{B}T\lambda_{ab}^{2}(T )\,\gamma^{2}}\;.$$
(2)

Φ₀ is the flux quantum, s the interplanar distance, and e = 2.718… . 
For λ_(ab) we take
[16]$\lambda(T)\!=\!\lambda_{0}/\sqrt{1\!-\!(T/T_{c})^{2}}$ with
λ₀ = 1400 A.

Our observations are well accounted for by this theory. Increasing
anisotropy leads to a strong depression of B_(br)(T) and some increase
of the curvature in the accessible field range. The results for γ are in
good agreement with other results. For Y-123 our value of γ  = 8 is in
between previous results of [17] 7.7 and [18] 8.7. One can compare the
present Fe-doped samples with magnetic measurements on crystals where
anisotropy has been changed by varying oxygen concentration. [18] From
Fig. 5 of Ref. 18 one finds a γ slightly above 20 at T_(c) = 70 K, and
γ  ∼ 55 for T_(c) = 50 K. Both γ values are in fair agreement with our
results for samples of corresponding T_(c) : s. It should be noted,
however, that the model of Ref. 6 is based on c-axis conduction by
Josephson tunneling between parallel planes, and it is not clear that
this is the relevant mechanism for a relatively weakly anisotropic
material such as the pure Y-123.

The results for the anisotropy can also be compared with the
resistivity. Although ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) is strongly temperature dependent in
the region close to T_(c) , we can roughly assume that
ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab)(1.1T_(c))  ∼ (m_(c)/m_(ab))  = γ². From Table 1 it can be
seen that this equality is obeyed to within 20

In the final part of the paper we shall show that measurements of ρ_(c)
and ρ_(ab) in different contact configurations are consistent with a
local anisotropic conductivity model. As described above, ρ_(c) drops
faster to zero than ρ_(ab) , leading to V₆₇/V₂₃  = 1 below T_(br)(B),
when current is fed through I¹ ⁻ ⁴ . By rotating the contact
configuration one would then expect, in the local conductivity picture,
that with current through I¹ ⁻ ⁵ , measuring V₂₆ and V₃₇ , one would
observe V₃₇/V₂₆  ≺ 0 when T  ≺ T_(br) from above. However, in some
recent experiments on Y-123 this was not the case. Instead V₃₇/V₂₆  ≺ 1
when T  ≺ T_(br), as for the orthogonal configuration, [3] implying that
within local electrodynamics ρ_(ab) would go to zero faster than ρ_(c) .
This contradiction therefore suggested nonlocal conductivity.

ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) measured by different methods is shown in Fig. 4.

Figure 3: Results for the x = 0.035 sample at 2 T with ${\bf B}\|c$ and
current through I¹ ⁻ ⁴. Full circles: V₂₃ , open circles: V₆₇ , open
squares: V₂₆ . The temperature T_(br) marks the onset of both c-axis
resistance and the region where V₂₃  > V₆₇ . Inset: The magnetic-field
dependence of T_(br) for three samples. The curves are calculations from
Eq. (2) with γ as a free parameter.

Methods (i) and (ii) give some different results, due to the uncertainty
of geometrical factors. For the x = 0.035 sample, method (iii) above was
employed in addition. Values of ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) in between those of the
other methods were found, thus supporting the overall features of the
results. Data for the undoped sample are more scattered than for the
other samples since the resistivity is smaller, but suggest
qualitatively the same conclusions. For all samples and all current
injections ρ_(c) approaches zero faster than ρ_(ab).

The gradual drop in the resistivity anisotropy near T_(c) leads to a
significant difference between the original Giaever dc-flux transformer
[19] and its modification for high-T_(c) superconductors. In the former,
current flows only through the primary film. Below T_(c) the voltage
observed in the secondary film is due to motion of magnetically coupled
vortices in both films under the Lorentz force acting only in the
primary film. In the high-T_(c) pseudoflux transformer, the current
injected from one ab plane of the crystal has a nonuniform distribution
above T_(br) with a characteristic length
$z_{\rm eff}\!\!\!\sim\!(\rho_{ab}/\rho_{c})^{1/2}$. Near T_(br), when
ρ_(c) decreases faster than ρ_(ab), $z_{\rm eff}$ diverges, current
distribution becomes uniform, and voltages at top and bottom surfaces
become equal. At T  < T_(br) the Lorentz force acting on the vortex line
is the same in different layers. Our results are qualitatively well
described by this local picture.

The difference between our results and those of Ref. [3] are not
understood. In our samples the twinning varies with Fe concentration.
For x = 0.035, the size of tweedlike and twined regions was much smaller
than the contact distances. Differences in twinning structure would
therefore not seem to be the reason, but further investigations must be
made for a more definite statement.

In summary we have varied anisotropy of Y-based 123 superconductors by
doping with Fe. In all cases ρ_(c) drops faster towards zero than
ρ_(ab). The phase boundary for de-correlated vortex motion in different
ab layers of the crystals is found to be well described by Eq. (2). The
resulting γ values were in agreement with results from oxygen-deficient
123 crystals of similar T_(c) values [18], suggesting a close relation
between increasing anisotropy and T_(c) depression in Fe-doped and
oxygen-deficient Y-123.

We are grateful to Z. Hegedus for performing the elemental analysis of
the Fe-doped samples. This work has been supported by the Swedish
Superconductivity Consortium and by the Swedish Natural Science Research
Council.

## References

* [1] H. Safar, E. Rodriguez, F. de la Cruz, P. L. Gammel, L. F.
Schneemeyer, and D. J. Bishop, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 328 (1992). * [2]
R. Busch, G. Ries, H. Werther, G. Kreiselmeyer, and G. Saeman-Ischenko,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 522 (1992). * [3] H. Safar, P. L. Gammel, D. A.
Huse, S. N. Majumdar, L. F. Schneemeyer, D. J. Bishop, D. Lopez, G.
Nieva, and F. de la Cruz, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 1272 (1994). * [4]
Yu. Eltsev, W. Holm, and O. Rapp, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12 333 (1994). *
[5] Yu. Eltsev, W. Holm, and O. Rapp, Physica C **235-240**, 2605
(1994). * [6] L. L. Daemen, L. N. Bulaevski, M. P. Maley, and Y.
Coulter, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1167 (1993). * [7] D. Lopez, G. Nieva,
and F. de la Cruz, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 7219 (1994). * [8] D. A. Huse
and S. N. Majumdar, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 2473 (1993). * [9] E.g., J.
M. Tarascon, D. Barboux, P. F. Miceli, L. H. Greene, and G. W. Hull,
Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7458 (1988). * [10] Y.-W. Xu, M. Suenaga, J. Tafto,
R. L. Sabatini, and A. R. Modenbaugh, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6667
(1989). * [11] K. Takenaka, K. Mizuhashi, H. Takagi, and S. Uchida,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 6534 (1994). * [12] C. Briceno, M. F. Crommie, and
A. Zettl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2164 (1991). * [13] D. G. Steel, W.
R. White, and J. M. Graybeal, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 161 (1993). *
[14] Strictly a definition of T_(br) depends on a voltage sensitivity
criterion (in our case 0.1 μV), above which differences in, e.g., V₂₃
and V₃₇ can be distinguished when current is fed through I¹ ⁻ ⁴. T_(br)
thus increases somewhat with decreasing current. However, with the
current at 1 mA, as used here, this effect is small. From comparison
with F. de la Cruz, D. Lopez, and G. Nieva, Philos. Mag. B **70**, 773
(1994) we estimate 0.2−0.3 K. * [15] M. V. Feigelman, V. B. Geshenkbein,
L. B. Joffe, and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 16 641 (1993). *
[16] W. N. Hardy, D. A. Bohn, D. C. Morgan, R.-X. Liang, and K. Zhang,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3999 (1993); J. Y. Lee, K. M. Paget, and T. R.
Lemberger, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3337 (1994). * [17] R. G. Beck, D. E.
Farrell, J. P. Rice, D. M. Ginzberg, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**68**, 1594 (1992). * [18] T. R. Chien, W. R. Datars, B. W. Veal, A. P.
Paulikas, P. Kostic, Chun Gu, and J. Jiang, Physica C **229**, 273
(1994). * [19] I. Giaever, Phys. Rev. Lett. **15**, 825 (1965).
