# Local Mn moment in amorphous Mn-Zr alloys

J. J. Hauser and J. V. Waszczak

AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill,

New Jersey 07974

16 May 1984

###### Abstract

While Ni, Co, and Fe display no local magnetic moment when alloyed with
Zr in metallic glasses, Mn has a local moment in Mn-Zr, Mn-Zr-Cu, and
Mn-Zr-Ni alloys. The moment decreases as Mn increases from 1 to 67 at.

It is well known that crystalline Cu-Mn and Au-Mn solid solutions
display a spin-glass interaction.[1,2] The spin-glass interaction has
also been seen in amorphous Au-Si-Mn films.[3] On the other hand,
metallic _M_-Zr glasses (_M_ = Cu, Ni, Co, and Fe) have been prepared[4]
by melt spinning. This suggested the investigation of a possible
spin-glass interaction in amorphous Mn-Zr alloys. While _M_-Zr glasses
(_M_ = Ni, Co, and Fe) displayed no local magnetic moment,[4] we will
show by both magnetic susceptibility and superconductivity measurements
that Mn has a local moment in Mn-Zr, Mn-Zr-Cu, and Mn-Zr-Ni alloys.
These local Mn moments do not, however, interact in a spin-glass state.

All the films were deposited by dc getter sputtering from arc-melted
buttons of the desired composition. The deposition temperatures varied
from 77 to 508 K depending on the alloy and the desired state of thermal
relaxation of the material. The amorphous state was checked by x-ray
diffraction and the composition by x-ray fluorescence analysis. For the
magnetic susceptibility measurements, the material was deposited on
sapphire substrates at 30 W (2000 V, 15 mA) and the material (usually
from 50 to 120 mg) was scraped with a sapphire slide in order to avoid
magnetic contamination. The resulting flakes were placed in an ultrapure
quartz container and measured using the Faraday method.[5] The low field
dc susceptibility was measured in a susceptometer using a
superconducting quantum interference device. For the conductivity
measurements, the alloy films with thicknesses varying between 2 and 5
μm (corresponding to 0.6-1.6 mg of material) were deposited at powers
ranging from 15 to 30 W on sapphire substrates. The temperature of
deposition (T_(D)) was chosen between 413 and 508 K for the Ni-Zr host
alloys and 260 K for the Cu-Zr host alloys because these _T__D_’s
resulted in the maximum superconducting transition temperature (T_(e)).

Mn-Zr films can be deposited in the amorphous state at T_(D) = 413 K for
Mn concentrations ranging from 15 to 67 at.

The susceptibility of Ni20Zr80 shown in Fig. 1 is essentially
temperature independent except for a small increase for T < 50 K in
agreement with previous results[4,7,8] obtained on glasses prepared by
melt spinning. This indicates that Ni does not have a local magnetic
moment and the same conclusion was previously reached[4] for Co and Fe.
On the other hand, it is quite clear from Fig. 1 that Mn15Zr85 displays
a strongly temperature-dependent susceptibility which is well fitted by
a Curie-Weiss law over the whole temperature range, thus establishing
the existence of a Mn local moment. The deviations from the Curie-Weiss
fit at low tem

Figure 1: Susceptibility as a function of temperature (dots) for
Ni20Zr80 (_H_ = 4.3 kOe), Ni19Zr30Mn5 (_H_ = 4.3 kOe), and Mn15Zr85
deposited at 77 K (_H_ = 12.8 kOe). The solid lines are least-squares
Curie-Weiss fits of the data with parameters shown in Table 1.

peratures are caused by the antiferromagnetic pairing of many Mn spins.
This is shown in Table 1 by the fact that as the Curie-Weiss fit is
restricted to lower temperatures the Curie-Weiss temperature θ and
$p_{\rm eff}$ = 2[_S_(_S_ + 1)]1/2 decrease while the temperature
independent contribution χ₀ increases. It is also clear from Table 1,
that increasing the Mn content increases the antiferromagnetic pairing
as shown by a decrease in $p_{\rm eff}$ and an increase in χ₀. It is
also interesting to point out that Mn13Zr8S deposited at 77 K displays a
larger value of $p_{\rm eff}$ and a smaller value of χ₀ than when
deposited at 413 K (Table 1) most probably because a lower T_(D) favors
more free Mn spins as a result of the greater randomness. However,
besides these antiferromagnetic interactions, there was no indication of
any spin-glass interaction for Mn concentrations between 10 and 67 at.

Hedman and Rapp[8] argued that a weak-field dependence of the
susceptibility which increases with decreasing temperature could be
responsible for an apparent stronger temperature dependence of χ
observed by Kaul.[9] Although the latter rejected this interpretation
and although the small curvature shown by _X_(_T_) in Fig. 1 for
Ni20Zr80 is negligible compared to the strong Curie-Weiss dependence of
alloys with Mn, the point is worth pursuing from the point of view of
the origin of the field dependence. Indeed, both authors[8, 9] were
noncommuttal on whether ferromagnetic inclusions and/or
superparamagnetic clusters are responsible for the field dependence. The
data shown in Fig. 3 for a variety of amorphous alloys suggest that the
χ field dependence is an extrinsic effect (i.e., caused by ferromagnetic
inclusions).

  ------------------- -------- --------------- ------ ----------------- ----------------- --------
                       T_(D)a   $p_{\rm eff}$    −θ          χ₀               χ₃₀₀          ΔTb
        Sample          (K)        (μ_(β))      (K)    (10⁻⁶ emu/mole)   (10⁻⁶ emu/mole)    (K)
       Mn15Zr8S          77         1.00        8.5          241               302         10–300
                                    0.82        3.2          361                            0–30
       Mn13Zr8S         413         0.87        8.0          283               323         10–300
     Mn132.5Zr67.5      413         0.83        12.0         358               442         10–300
                                    0.69        5.0          450                           10–50
                                    0.74        7.0          401                            0–50
                                    0.79        8.0          329                            0–30
       Mn90Zr90         413         0.87        14.0         979              1270         30–300
       Mn90Zr13         413         0.72        13.5        1670              2030         0–250
       Ni20Zr80         413           0          0           172               172           ⋯
   Ni19,75Zr79Mn1.25    413         1.59        1.4          198               177          0–85
     Ni19,75Zr9Mn5      1.33          0         263                           0–15        
      Ni19Zr90Mn5       413         1.06        2.2          196               213         0–300
                                    1.01        1.5          209                           0–100
                                    0.96        1.0          231                            0–30
      Cu19Zr90Mn5       260         1.48        1.5          174               189         0–100
                                    1.40        1.0          220                            0–30
  ------------------- -------- --------------- ------ ----------------- ----------------- --------

Table 1: Magnetic properties of amorphous Zr alloys.

Figure 2: Inverse susceptibility as a function of temperature for
Mn13Zr8S deposited at 77 K with χ₀ = 2.808×10⁻⁶ emu/g measured in high
and low dc magnetic fields. The 12.8-kOe data are the same as shown in
Fig. 1.

clusions). This statement is first supported by the fact that the
dependence of χ on 1/H shown in Fig. 3 starting with Ni₂₀Zr₇₆Mn₅, and
with increasing amount of Mn in Mn-Zr alloys is essentially the same and
similar to that reported[8] for Fe₂₄Zr₇₆. One would expect the
clustering (intrinsic effect) if present to increase with increased Mn
content. Furthermore, although Mn₁₃Zr₇₆ deposited at 413 K shows a
stronger field dependence than Mn₁₃Zr₇₆ deposited at 77 K which would be
consistent with the idea of increasing clustering with increasing T_(D),
the reverse is true for Cu₁₉Zr₇₆Mn₅ (T_(D) = 260 K) and Ni₁₉Zr₇₆Mn₅
(T_(D) = 413 K). One should also notice that in the cases of different
field dependences, the value of χ at 1/H = 0 is the same.

Having established that it is the Mn local moment which is responsible
for the absence of superconductivity in amorphous Mn-Zr alloys with Mn ≅
10 at.

The study will now be completed by examining the superconducting
properties of Ni-Zr-Mn and Cu-Zr-Mn amorphous alloys. The data are shown
in Fig. 4 and in the case of Ni-Zr-Mn the $T_{\rm c}$’s were measured
both resistively (ρ) and by susceptibility (χ). The susceptibility
measurements yield a higher value of $T_{\rm c}$ and a broader
transition than the resistive measurements mainly because the χ
measurement is made on about two orders of magnitude more material than
the resistive measurement. At any rate, the rate of depression of
$T_{\rm c}$ with Mn is about the same for χ and ρ measurements. The data
shown in Fig. 4 establish two important results: first, the
$T_{\rm c}$’s of amorphous Ni₂₀Zr₂₀ and Cu₂₀Zr₂₀ films ( = 3.6 K) are in
excellent agreement with those reported[4] for glasses and second, the
strong depression of $T_{\rm c}$ with Mn (as high as 1.5 K/at.

In conclusion, both superconducting and magnetic measurements have
established the presence of a Mn local moment in Zr glasses. However, no
spin-glass interaction could be detected.

Figure 4: Superconducting transition temperatures measured resistively
(ρ) and by susceptibility (χ) as a function of Mn content.

Figure 3: Field dependence of the susceptibility at 300 K for various
amorphous films. The dashed line approximates the data shown for the
Fe₂₄Zr₇₆ glass in Ref. 8.

We would like to thank R. J. Felder for his technical assistance, J. E.
Bernardini for arc melting all the alloys used in this study, and F. J.
DiSalvo for many enlightening discussions. * [14] V. Canella and J. A.
Mydosh, Phys. Rev. B **6**, 4220 (1972). * [15] V. Canella, in
_Amorphous Magnetism_, edited by H. O. Hooper and A. M. de Graf (Plenum,
New York, 1973), p. 195. * [16] J. J. Hauser and J. V. Waszczak, Phys.
Rev. B **18**, 6206 (1978). * [17] Z. Altounian and J. O. Strom-Olsen,
Phys. Rev. B **27**, 4149 (1983). * [18] F. J. DiSalvo, B. G. Bagley, R.
S. Hutton, and A. H. Clark, Solid State Commun. **19**, 97 (1976). *
[19] R. J. Felder and J. J. Hauser, Mater. Lett. **2**, 232 (1984). *
[20] H.-J. Eifert, B. Elschner, and K. H. J. Buschow, Phys. Rev. B
**29**, 2905 (1984). * [21] L. Hedman and O. Rapp, Phys. Lett. **100A**,
251 (1984). * [22] S. N. Kaul, Phys. Lett. **100A**, 254 (1984). * [23]
C. A. M. Mulder, A. J. Van Duyneveldt, and J. A. Mydosh, Phys. Rev. B
**23**, 1384 (1981).
