# Magnetic susceptibilities, critical fields, and critical currents of
Co- and Zn-doped YBa2Cu3O7

D. N. Zheng, A. M. Campbell, J. D. Johnson, J. R. Cooper, F. J. Blunt,
A. Porch, P. A. Freeman

Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Superconductivity, University of
Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

26 July 1993126 July 199326 July 1993326 July 1993

###### Abstract

We have performed ac susceptibility, dc magnetization, and
critical-current measurements on a series of YBa2Cu3O7 samples with low
levels of Co and Zn doping. The anisotropic superconducting properties
were studied by magnetically aligning the powders in wax. By combining
previous results of the magnetic penetration depth l with the
thermodynamic critical field _H_c data, obtained from previous
specific-heat measurements, we were able to estimate the coherence
length x, the lower and upper critical fields _H_c1 and _H_c2, and the
Ginzburg-Landau parameter k of these samples. We have compared these
estimates with values determined from dc magnetization curves near _T_c.
Both intra- and intergrain critical current densities, _Jc_(intra) and
_Jc_(inter), were measured magnetically on bulk samples and found to
decrease with Co and Zn doping. In particular, the ratio of _Jc_(intra)
and _Jc_(inter) was found to be insensitive to doping, although the
coherence length was increased in the doped samples. Moreover,
_Jc_(intra) correlates well with the condensation energies of the
samples. This indicates that doping with Co or Zn weakens the energy
barrier of the existing pinning sites and has a negative overall effect
on the ability of YBa2Cu3O7 to carry loss-free currents. Finally, the
results of irreversibility line measurements show that the Co
substitution, occurring in the CuO chain sites, has a more severe effect
than Zn substitution, occurring in the CuO2 plane sites, because of the
increased anisotropy.

## I Introduction

Flux pinning and critical-current density _Jc_ are the most important
properties needed for practical applications of high-_T_c
superconductors. It is well known that these two properties are closely
linked to fundamental superconducting properties [1] such as the
coherence length x, the magnetic penetration depth l, and the critical
fields _H_c, _H_c1, and _H_c2. Therefore, to understand and improve the
_Jc_ behavior of high-_T_c superconductors, systematic and correlated
studies involving both _Jc_ and the basic superconducting parameters are
needed. Here we report values of l, x, _H_c1, _H_c2, and _Jc_ measured
on a series of YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO) samples with low-level Co and Zn doping,
in an attempt to draw some conclusions about the correlation between
them, and also to investigate the effect of partial substitution of Cu.

Additionally, the basic properties of a superconductor provide insight
into the superconducting mechanism. However, there are difficulties in
properly determining these fundamental quantities due to a number of
reasons. For example, because of the large value of _H_c2, it can only
be measured at temperatures near to _T_c, where thermal fluctuation
effects are more significant so that the error in the determination of
_H_c2 can be large. In the present work, by making use of the values of
the penetration depth obtained from ac susceptibility data [2] and the
values of the thermodynamic critical field determined from specific-heat
measurements, [3, 4] we are able to determine other parameters using the
Ginzburg-Landau relations. This way provides the advantage that these
parameters can be evaluated over a wide temperature range from _T_c to a
temperature close to 0 K. Although the Ginzburg-Landau theory is
strictly valid only close to _T_c, it is found to be a reasonable
approximation well below _T_c. [5, 6]

The material parameters or properties of YBa2Cu3O7 can be systematically
changed by partial substitution of Cu with another element. Transition
metals with 3d electrons, such as Fe, Co, Ni, Zn, are often used as
dopants because the Cu 3d electrons are believed to be relevant to the
superconductivity. [7, 8, 9] In this work we chose trivalent Co and
divalent Zn as dopants. The positions of Co and Zn for Cu within the
crystal lattice of YBCO have been studied by x-ray diffraction, [10]
neutron diffraction, [11, 12] and thermogravimetric analysis. [11] It is
generally agreed that Co ions primarily substitute for the chain Cu(1)
sites. In the case of Zn doping, although there is no firm consensus in
literature regarding the substitution site of the Zn ions, [13, 14, 15]
it is plausible to believe that at least some (probably all) Zn ions
occupy Cu(2) sites in the CuO2 plane. It would be hard to explain the
strong suppression of _T_c by Zn doping if Zn ions go only to chain
sites. We shall show that because of their different substituting sites
Co and Zn affect the properties of YBCO differently.

## II Experiment

Polycrystalline samples with a compositional formula of
YBa2(Cu1-_x_M_x_)3O7 (_M_ = Co, Zn; 0 <= x < 0.1) (YBCO-_x_

An ac inductive technique[17]⁻[19] was used to measure
$J_{c({\rm inter})}$ of the samples. A drive coil provided a sinusoidal
field at 800 Hz whose amplitude could be varied up to 20 mT. A search
coil around the sample measured the flux entering it. The derivative of
the signal s with respect to the amplitude b₀ is a measure of the depth
to which currents flow and a marked discontinuity is seen when the flux
reaches the sample center. If the amplitude of the applied field at this
point is b₀^(•) then according to the Beam model
$J_{c({\rm inter})}$=b₀^(•)/a₁μ₀, where 2a₁ is the sample thickness.

The upper critical field H_(c2) was determined directly near T_(c) from
M (T) curves of the aligned samples measured at fixed fields. The
irreversibility line $H_{{\rm irr}}(T)$ is determined as the onset of
detectable irreversibility in the isothermal dc M-H loops. Certainly,
the value of $H_{{\rm irr}}$ depends on the sensitivity and the noise
level of the instrument and a criterion 10⁻5 emu (that is the noise
level of the VSM) was used. It corresponds to a J_(c) value of 100
A/cm². By using the same criterion for all samples, it is possible to
draw conclusions on the effect of doping, even if the absolute value is
uncertain. $J_{c({\rm intra})}$ was calculated from magnetic hysteresis
using the Beam model.

## III Results and Discussion

### ac susceptibility (χ) and penetration depth (λ)

In Fig. 1, we show the ac susceptibility (χ) data of three samples
(YBCO, YBCO-4

$$\lambda^{2} = \frac{m^{\bullet}}{\mu_{0}n_{s}e^{2}}\ ,$$

where m^(•) is the effective mass of the electron. The progressive
decrease of n_(s) has also been observed in specific heat[3, 4] and
possibly in Hall effect measurements.[20] Finally, when plotting
χ_(c)/χ_(ab) at low temperatures (∼ 4.2 K) as a function of the doping
concentration, as shown in Fig. 2, we find that for the Co-doped YBCO
χ_(c)/χ_(ab) increases much more rapidly than the Zn-doped YBCO. We
attribute the large variation of χ_(c)/χ_(ab) in Co-doped

Figure 2: The ratio of χ_(c)/χ_(ab) (χ_(c),χ_(ab), ac susceptibility
with field parallel to the c axis and ab plane, respectively) as a
function of doping content for the Co- and Zn-doped YBCO samples.

Figure 1: The temperature dependence of the ac susceptibility χ of
magnetically aligned powders of YBCO, YBCO-4

samples to increasing anisotropy with Co concentration, i.e., an
increase in m^(•) for the c direction. This can be understood
qualitatively in terms of different substitution sites of Co and Zn
dopants. In YBCO and all high-T_(c) superconductors, the
superconductivity is associated with the CuO₂ planes and the conducting
CuO chains in YBCO improve the interplanar coupling between
superconducting planes. The substitution of Co for Cu in the chain site
reduces the coupling and therefore increases the anisotropy. In
contrast, Zn dopants go into the CuO₂ plane and thus have little effect
on the anisotropy. The increased anisotropy leading to larger
fluctuations effects are also observed in the conductivity[21] above
T_(c) and in the magnetization of Co-doped YBCO.

Assuming the superconducting grains in the composite samples are
spherical, values of penetration depth for the YBCO, YBCO-1.5

$$\frac{X}{\chi_{\rm max}} = 1 - 3x\,\coth\,\left[ \frac{1}{x} \right] + 3x^{2}\ ,$$

where x = λ/a. (a is the radius of a grain.) The details of the
calculation and the temperature dependence of λ_(ab) and λ_(c) have been
reported previously.[2] The low-temperature values are listed in
Table 1. For the pure YBCO sample, values of both λ_(ab) and λ_(c) are
in good agreement with the values reported in literature.[23]⁻[27]

Coherence length (ξ), lower and upper critical fields (H_(c1) and
H_(c2)), and Ginzburg-Landau parameter (κ)

For an anisotropic superconductor, a reduced effective-mass tensor is
introduced to account for anisotropic properties. The tensor is
diagonal, its elements m_(i) are normalized by m₁m₂m₃ = 1. The
characteristic lengths ξ and λ along the principal axes are determined
by $\xi_{i} = \xi/\sqrt{m_{i}}$ and $\lambda_{i} = \lambda\sqrt{m_{i}}$,
where ξ = (ξ₁ξ₂ξ₃)^(1/3) and λ = (λ₁λ₂λ₃)^(1/3). The high-T_(c)
superconductors are usually regarded as uniaxial superconductors, i.e.,
their anisotropy between a-axis and b-axis directions is neglected, and
hence ξ_(a) = ξ_(b) = ξ_(ab) and λ_(a) = λ_(b) = λ_(ab). In this case ξ,
λ, and κ are related to critical fields through following relations:

$$H_{c1}^{c} = \frac{\phi_{0}}{4\pi\lambda_{ab}^{2}}(\ln\kappa_{c} + 0.5)\ ,$$

$$H_{c1}^{ab} \frac{\phi_{0}}{4\pi\lambda_{ab}\lambda_{c}}(\ln\kappa_{ab} + 0.5)\ ,$$

$$H_{c2}^{c} = \frac{\phi_{0}}{2\pi\xi_{ab}^{2}},\ \ H_{c2}^{ab} = \frac{\phi_{0}}{2\pi\xi_{ab}\xi_{c}}\ ,$$

$$H_{c} = \frac{\phi_{0}}{2\sqrt{2}\pi\xi_{ab}\lambda_{ab}}\ ,\ \ H_{c} = \frac{\phi_{0}}{2\sqrt{2}\pi\xi_{ab}\lambda_{c}}\ ,$$

where

κ_(c) = λ_(ab)/ξ_(ab)

and

κ_(ab) = λ_(c)/ξ_(ab) = [(λ_(c)/ξ_(c))(λ_(ab)/ξ_(ab))]^(1/2) .

The penetration depth and the coherence length are related to the mass
anisotropy by

λ_(c)/λ_(ab) = ξ_(ab)/ξ_(c) = (m_(c)/m_(ab))^(1/2) .

It is worth pointing out that the thermodynamic critical field H_(c) is
isotropic. This is because $\frac{1}{2}\mu_{0}H_{c}^{2}$ is the
condensation energy per unit volume of a superconductor, and hence is
independent of external fields or their direction.

The thermodynamic critical field H_(c)(T) of these four samples were
obtained by Loram _et al_.[3, 4] from the specific-heat data. The
specific-heat measurements were carried out on another batch of the
original samples from which the aligned composite samples were made. By
employing a differential technique, the large contribution of phonons to
the specific heat can be backed off, and hence a high resolution of 0.01

$$S_{z}(T) - S_{n}(T) = \int_{T_{c}}^{T}\frac{\Delta C^{\rm el}(T^{\ast})}{T^{\prime}}dT^{\ast}\ .$$

Thus, H_(c)(T) is calculated by the relation

c c c c c c c c c c c c & λ_(ab) & λ_(c) & H_(c) & κ_(ab) & κ_(c) &
ξ_(ab) & ξ_(c) & H_(ab)^(ab) & H_(c1)^(c) & H_(c1)^(ab) & H_(c2)^(c)
& (nm) & (nm) & (_T_) & & & (nm) & (nm) & (nm) & (mT) & (mT) & (T) & (T)
Pure YBCO & 135 & 894 & 1.1 & 85 & 560 & 1.6 & 0.24 & 8.9 & 50 & 850 &
130
1.5% Co & 190 & 998 & 0.84 & 130 & 680 & 1.5 & 0.28 & 6.3 & 30 & 800 &
150
4% Co & 188 & 1717 & 0.43 & 65 & 590 & 2.9 & 0.32 & 3.3 & 25 & 360 & 40
5% Zn & 312 & 1301 & 0.24 & 100 & 420 & 3.1 & 0.74 & 2.6 & 9.4 & 140 &
34

Table 1: Penetration depth, coherence length, critical fields, and
Ginzburg-Landau parameter of magnetically aligned
YBa₂Cu_(1 − x),_(x))₀₇(M= Co₂Zn). λ_(ab) and λ_(c) were obtained from
the ac susceptibility data (Ref. [2]). The data of H_(c) were obtained
from a specific-heat measurement (Refs. [3] and [4]). Other parameters
are calculated using the Ginzburg-Landau relations (see text).

$$\frac{\mu_{0}H_{\rm c}^{2}(T)}{2} = f_{n}(T) - f_{s}(T)$$
(9)
 = ∫_(T_(c))^(T)[S_(s)(T^(′)) − S_(n)(T^(′))]dT ,

where f_(n) and f_(s) are the free-energy densities of the normal state
and superconducting state.

From l and H_(c) the other parameters were calculated using Eqs.
(3)−(6). The zero-temperature results are listed in Table I. For pure
YBCO results are in agreement with those reported in the literature. For
example, the value of H_(c2)^(c) is in good agreement with that obtained
by Welp _et al._[28] on single crystals. The values of H_(c2)^(ab) seems
slightly larger than theirs, and consequently gives a slightly higher
anisotropy of 6.3 compared with 5.2 in their paper. However, this value
of anisotropy is consistent with results from torque magnetometery [29]
and another report. [30] As shown in Table I, the data indicate that Co
doping increases the anisotropy [as reflected by λ_(c)(0)/λ_(ab)(0) or
ξ_(ab)(0)/ξ_(c)(0)], while the increase in λ_(ab)(0) is just in excess
of the experimental uncertainty. In contrast, Zn doping gives a
particularly strong increase in λ_(ab)(0). It is tempting to associate
this difference between Co and Zn doping to their different substitution
sites in the YBCO crystal unit cell. The chain site substitution of Co
may reduce the coupling between the superconducting CuO₂ plane and
therefore increases the anisotropy. The increase of the anisotropy in
the Co-doped sample is consistent with the larger fluctuation effects
observed in the conductivity above T_(c). [21]

It is also interesting to notice that for the doped samples the
coherence length ξ increases and the Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ does
not change much. This seems different from the doping effect in
log-T_(c) metals. For a low-T_(c) superconductor, the presence of
impurities reduces the mean-free-path l and hence the coherence length ξ
decreases according to the relation [31]

$$\frac{1}{\xi} = \frac{1}{\xi_{0}} + \frac{1}{l}\ .$$
(10)

Here ξ₀ is the BCS coherence length for pure metals and is related to
the superconducting transition temperature T_(c) and Fermi velocity
V_(F) by the relation [32]

$$\xi_{0} = 0.15\frac{\hbar V_{F}}{k_{B}T_{c}}\ .$$
(11)

However, for high-T_(c) superconductors, ξ₀ is very short compared with
l even in doped samples. Therefore, they remain in the clean limit,
ξ₀ <  < l, and so ξ is mainly determined by ξ₀. Both T_(c) and V_(F)
(which is a function of n_(s) and m^(*)) decrease with doping, as
indicated by susceptibility and the penetration depth data. If the
reduction of T_(c) by doping is greater than that of V_(F), according to
Eq. (11) the coherence length could increase.

The temperature dependences of H_(c1) and H_(c2) of pure YBCO and the
YBCO-5

Figure 3: The temperature dependence of (a) H_(c1) and (b) H_(c2) for
the YBCO and YBCO-5

does not saturate at low temperatures. Naito _et al._41 have shown that
_H__c_1 can be measured more properly if the pinning effect can be
accounted for by analyzing magnetization data with the Bean model. The
_H__c_1 results presented here were extracted from the penetration
depth, and thus do not show the upturn behavior.

The temperature dependence of _H__c_2(_T_) is an important clue to
understand the pairing mechanism of high-_T__c_ superconductors. The BCS
theory gives a linear relation at temperatures near T_(c), while some
other theoretical models give a different temperature dependence.
According to the bipolaron superconductivity mechanism, for example,
_H__c_2 follows a relation (1 - _T_/_T__c_)3/2 which means a positive
curvature.42 Although the uncertainty of _H__c_2 near T_(c) makes the
verification of the relation difficult, the overall behavior of measured
_H__c_2(_T_) seems more in agreement with the traditional theory.

### Direct measurement of the upper critical field _H__c_2

In order to check the results in Table I independently, we measured the
upper critical field _H__c_2 of these samples with the field parallel to
the c axis. The measurements were performed in the VSM with fields up to
6 T. It is observed that in a temperature interval of about 10 K
(depending on the applied field) below T_(c) the magnetization is
reversible. Therefore, these measurements reflect an equilibrium state
and are not complicated by effects due to pinning. In Fig. 4, the
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) magnetization curves are shown as a function of
temperature and applied field oriented parallel to the c axis for the
YBCO sample. A linear temperature dependence of the magnetization below
T_(c) is clearly shown. The nucleation temperature _T__c_2(_H_) is
defined as the intercept of a linear extrapolation of the magnetization
in the superconducting state with the normal-state base line. The data
display nicely the depression of T_(c) with field. In the near vicinity
of the transition, rounding in the _M_(_T_) dependence is shown. This
broadening is probably caused by diamagnetic fluctuations. For the
YBCO-5

In Fig. 5, _H__c_2 is plotted as a function of temperature at
temperatures near T_(c) for the YBCO and YBCO-5

H_(c₂)(0) = 0.7T_(c)(∂H_(c₂)/∂T)|_(T_(c))

and the coherence lengths calculated using Eq. (6) are
$H_{c_2}^{c}(0) = 129, 152, and 41 T and \(\xi_{ab}(0) = 1.57, 1.47, and 2.83 A for these three samples. Comparing this to the data in Table I, the results of YBCO and YBCO-1.5%Co are in good agreement with that obtained in the previous section. For YBCO-5%Zn, the direct measurement yields a higher value of _H__c_2 than does the method described in Sec. III E , but is reasonably consistent.

The experimental data in Fig. 5 appear to show a linear temperature dependence, consistent with the Ginzburg-Landau theory. However, taking into account of the experimental error and the narrow temperature region over which the data are obtained, the possibility of other temperature relations, for instance, the (1 - _T_/_T__c_)3/2 dependence suggested in the bipolaron boson model, cannot be ruled out entirely.

Figure 4: Zero-field-cooled magnetizations measured at different fields as a function of temperature for the YBCO sample.

Figure 5: High-temperature values of _H__c_2 near \(T_{c}$, measured
from the magnetization, of the YBCO and the YBCO-5

### Inter- and intragrain critical currents ($J_{c(\rm inter)}$ and
$J_{c(\rm inter)}$)

The intergrain critical current of Co and Zn-doped samples was measured
using a inductive method [17]−[19] on bar-shaped samples cut off from
the original sintered samples. The sample was cooled down to 4.2 or 77 K
in zero field, and then temperature became stable a small ac field
(b = b₀cosoot) was applied for balancing the output and adjusting the
phase of the lock-in amplifier. The phase was set to give a maximum
signal and the balance was made by adjusting the compensating coil to
give a zero output. After doing this, the ac applied field was sweeping
up slowly while V, the voltage output of the lock-in amplifier, was
recorded. The derivative ∂V/∂b₀ was computed numerically afterwards.

The inductive method employed here measures the total flux put into the
sample by the applied ac field. As pointed out previously, [17], [19]
the plot of b versus ∂V/∂b₀ reflects the magnetic flux profile inside
the sample. In the case of a long slab and within the Bean model
(J_(c)= const), this is straightforward. In the case of the Anderson-Kim
model (J_(c) ∝ 1/H), the derivative gives J_(c) as a function of b₀, but
again it also gives the penetration for a value of J_(c) averaged over
the amplitude b₀. If the sample is cylindrical or rectangular, its
surface shell can be regarded as a slab and hence the above discussion
still holds for small field amplitudes when flux penetrates only into
the edge area. For a large field amplitude where the flux penetration
goes to the center of the sample, J_(c) can be calculated as an average
over b₀. In Fig. 6, some calculated b₀ against ∂V/∂b₀ curves for
different sample geometries and J_(c)(B) dependence are presented. The
sample is a long rectangular rod with cross section 2a₁ × 2a₂. A notable
point is that if the results are analyzed using the Anderson-Kim model
(J_(c) ∝ 1/B) a curvature is shown at low fields and a peak is shown
near the full penetration field b₀^(•) (the field at which flux lines
reach the center of the sample). The peak position, as shown in Fig.
6(b), does not always coincide with b₀^(•) but varies slightly with the
sample geometry.

A sintered bulk sample can be regarded as a network of superconducting
grains connected by weak links. [45]^(,)[46] In the inductive technique,
the applied field is small so that it penetrates into the sample mainly
through the weak links at grain boundaries. Thus, the critical-current
density measured here is $J_{c(\rm inter)}$.

Some raw data for three samples recorded at 4.2 K and their derivative
are shown in Figs. 7(a) and 7(b), respectively. The curvature at low
fields and the peak at higher fields are seen clearly in the field b₀
against the derivative ∂V/∂b₀ plot [Fig. 7(b)] for these three samples.
The similarity between the measured curves and those shown in Fig. 6(b)
shows clearly a strongly field dependent $J_{c(\rm inter)}$ as we
expected for a sintered bulk samples. The average value of
$J_{c(\rm inter)}$ is determined by b₀^(•)/(μ₀a₁), where b₀^(•) is the
peak field and 2a₁( = 1 mm) is the sample thickness. For the pure YBCO
sample, $J_{c(\rm inter)}$ is about 100 A/cm² which is 3 or 4 orders of
magnitude lower than $J_{c(\rm inter)}$, the critical-current density
within grains. With the addition of more Co or Zn, $J_{c(\rm inter)}$
decreases.

dc magnetization measurements were also performed on the samples used in
the ac inductive measurements in an applied field of up to 12 T. It is
believed that at sufficiently high field, for instance, 1 T, the weak
links at grain boundaries become nonsuperconducting so that the
contribution of $J_{c(\rm inter)}$ to magnetization is unimportant. In
this case, according to the Bean model, [47] we have
$J_{c(\rm intra)} \propto \Delta M/d$, d is the particle size, where ΔM
is the magnetic hysteresis of increasing and decreasing field.
Therefore, the change of ΔM mirrors the change of $J_{c(\rm intra)}$
(the samples were made under same conditions, and thus d has a similar
value). For the pure YBCO sample, using the grain size d = 2μm and the
formula derived from the Bean model, [47]

$$J_{c(\rm intra)} = 34\Delta M/d$$

(J_(c), Δ/cm²; ΔM, emu/cm³; d, cm), we obtain a value of 1.7 × 10⁷ A/cm²
that is much higher than $J_{c(\rm inter)}$.

In Figs. 8(a) and 8(b), we show the inter- and intragrain critical
currents as a function of doping concentration for the Co- and Zn-doped
samples, respectively. Values of

Figure 6: Calculated b₀ against ∂V/∂b₀ (b₀ is the amplitude of the ac
field and V is the output of the lock-in amplifier) curves according to
(a) the Bean model J_(c)= const and (b) the Anderson-Kim model
J_(c) ∝ 1/B. The sample is a long rectangular rod with cross section
2a₁ × 2a₂. The inset in (b) shows the detail around the peak.

$J_{c({\rm inter})}$ and $J_{c({\rm intra})}$ are normalized to the
value of the undoped sample. It is clear that both $J_{c({\rm inter})}$
and $J_{c({\rm intra})}$ decrease with increasing the doping
concentration. Furthermore, the two critical currents show a very
similar decay rate with doping concentration, although there is
inevitably a good deal of scatter in the experimental data and the
absolute magnitudes differ by a factor 103. The results suggest that
$J_{c({\rm inter})}$ scales with $J_{c({\rm intra})}$, which is at first
sight surprising since it is usually assumed that the limited mechanisms
are quite different. On close examination the result is consistent with
a number of pictures. First, if the boundaries are SIS
(superconductor-insulator-superconductor) type and the thickness does
not change, $J_{c({\rm inter})}$ will vary with the energy gap and it is
likely that bulk pinning energies will vary in a similar way. Second, if
the boundaries are SNS (superconductor-normal-superconductor) type,
J_(c) will be determined by the order parameter on either side of the
boundary and the coherence length within the boundary. If the dopants do
not affect the nature of the grain boundary layer significantly we would
again find scaling of the two current densities. Thus, our results
suggest that doping does not affect significantly the width or
properties of the boundary between grains.

Additionally dc magnetization measurements have been undertaken on the
magnetically aligned composites. In this case no intergrain currents are
involved at all. Results measured at 4.2 K with field parallel to the c
axis are shown in Fig. 9. All curves show a similar field dependence,
with almost field-independent magnetization at high fields indicating a
high and field-independent $J_{c({\rm intra})}$. The smaller size of the
hysteresis means that $J_{c({\rm inter})}$ decreases as Cu is partially
substituted.

To correlate $J_{c({\rm intra})}$ with the superconducting parameters,
we consider a simplified single-site pinning model. In this model, the
pinning force density F_(p) = J_(c)B (where B is the flux density) can
be linked to the pinning energy (related to the condensation energy) and
the coherence

Figure 7: Experimental data of (a) V vs b₀ and (b) b₀ vs ∂V/∂b₀ for
Co-doped YBCO bulk samples. The data in (b) were calculated numerically
from those in (a). Similarity of curves in (b) with those in Fig. 6(b)
suggests $J_{c({\rm inter})}$ is strongly field dependent. The average
$J_{c({\rm inter})}$ over b₀^(•) (the peak field) is determined as
$J_{c({\rm inter})}$=b₀^(•)/(μ₀μ₁).

length in a straightforward manner. Consider the situation of field
parallel to the c axis. The energy of the core of a vortex is
$E = \frac{1}{2}\mu_{0}H_{c}^{2}\xi_{ab}^{2}$ per unit length so the
maximum force in creating a core is
$\nabla E \approx \frac{1}{2}\mu_{0}H_{c}^{2}\xi_{ab}$. This is the
pinning force. The driving force (Lorentz force) per line is θ₀γ_(c) per
unit length so that we can write $J_{c(\rm intra)}$ as

$$J_{c(\rm intra)} = \eta\mu_{0}H_{c}^{2}\xi_{ab}/2\theta_{0}\ ,$$
(14)

where η is a numerical factor accounting for incomplete suppression of
the order parameter at the pinning site and other deviations from the
optimal case. In a real system, the situation is expected to be more
complex. However, the essential characteristics of flux pinning are
contained in this simplified form. According to Eq. (14), a linear
relation between J_(c) and the product μ₀H_(c)²ξ_(ab) is expected. In
Fig. 10, $J_{c(\rm intra)}$ of four samples (YBCO, YBCO-1.5

J_(c) ∝ H_(c)²ξ_(ab) ∝ H_(c)/λ_(ab) ,
(15)

that is the depairing current. Therefore, $J_{c(\rm intra)}$ scales with
the depairing current. Also, Eq. (15) suggests that for the purpose of
applications we should look for materials with small λ (or high H_(c1))

Figure 8: Critical-current densities of (a) the Co-doped samples and (b)
the Zn-doped samples measured at 4.2 K with using ac inductive technique
(for $J_{c(\rm inter)}$) and dc magnetization (for $J_{c(\rm intra)}$).
Results of both $J_{c(\rm inter)}$ and $J_{c(\rm intra)}$ are normalized
by values of the pure YBCO sample.

Figure 10: The intragrain critical current density $J_{c(\rm intra)}$ at
4.2 K and 1 T shown as a function of the product μ₀H_(c)²ξ_(ab).

Figure 9: Magnetic hysteresis loops of the magnetically aligned YBCO,
YBCO-1.5

### The irreversibility line

In Fig. 11, we show the irreversibility line $H_{\rm irr}(T)$ of the
YBCO, YBCO-1.5

We have seen in Secs. III.1 and III.2 that Co doping results in a large
increase in anisotropy. Thus, the results presented here strongly
suggest that in high-T_(c) superconducting oxides the degree of their
anisotropic character is a key factor in determining the irreversibility
line. In high-T_(c) superconductors, due to their layered structure,
flux lines along the c axis might be regarded as vortex pancakes[52]
coupled via the Josephson effect and their magnetic interaction. In
YBCO, CuO chains, which are believed to be conducting, are present
between superconducting CuO₂ biplanes, and hence enhance the coupling
along the c axis, resulting in a good flux pinning and critical-current
behavior at high temperatures and high fields, and a high
irreversibility line compared to other high-T_(c) superconductors. When
Co ions are doped into the CuO chains, they presumably weaken the
coupling and cause the vortex lattice to more easily break into pancakes
which are easily thermally activated, leading to a low irreversibility
line.[53, 54]

## IV Summary

In summary, the effect of Co and Zn doping on the superconducting
properties of YBCO has been studied by means of ac susceptibility and dc
magnetization. By using magnetically aligned powdered samples, the
magnetic penetration depth λ_(ab) and λ_(c) could be measured. Both
λ_(ab) and λ_(c) were decreased by doping. However, the effects of Co
and Zn doping on the anisotropy of YBCO are different. The experimental
data indicate that Co doping increases the anisotropy [as reflected by
λ_(c)(0)/λ_(ab)(0) or ξ_(ab)(0)/ξ_(c)(0)], while the increase in
λ_(ab)(0) is just in excess of the experimental uncertainty. In
contrast, Zn doping gives a particularly strong increase in λ_(ab)(0).
This can be understood by linking the anisotropy difference between Co
and Zn doping to their different substitution sites in the YBCO crystal
unit cell. The chain site substitution of Co probably reduces the
coupling between the superconducting CuO₂ plane and therefore increases
the anisotropy. With the aid of the Ginzburg-Landau relations, basic
superconducting parameters such as the upper and lower critical fields,
H_(c1) and H_(c2), the coherence length ξ, and the Ginzburg-Landau
parameter κ were calculated from λ and the thermodynamic critical field
H_(c), which was determined from specific-heat measurements. The values
of H_(c2) measured directly near T_(c) were consistent with these
estimated values. Both inter- and intragrain critical-current densities,
$J_{c({\rm{inter}})}$ and $J_{c({\rm{intra}})}$, decreased with doping.
$J_{c({\rm{intra}})}$ showed good correlation with the pinning model
parameter $\frac{1}{2}\mu_{0}H_{c}^{2}\xi_{ab}$. This suggested that the
decrease the condensation energy $\frac{1}{2}\mu_{0}H_{c}^{2}$ by doping
is responsible for the reduction of J_(c). Moreover, the irreversibility
line was lowered by doping, in particular by Co doping which weakens the
interlayer coupling and increases the anisotropy. The results strongly
indicated that in high-T_(c) superconducting oxides the degree of their
coupling between planes is a key factor in determining the
irreversibility line.

###### Acknowledgements.

The author would like to thank J. W. Loram and K. A. Mizra for providing
the data of the thermodynamic critical field. This work was supported by
the Science and Engineering Research Council (SERC), UK.

Figure 11: The irreversibility line and upper critical field (H_(c2)) of
YBCO, YBCO-1.5

* [4] Present address: School of Electronic and Electrical Engineering,
University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, United Kingdom. * [5] A.
M. Campbell and J. E. Evetts, Adv. Phys. **21**, 199 (1972). * [6] A.
Porch, J. R. Cooper, D. N. Zheng, J. R. Waldram, A. M. Campbell, and P.
A. Freeman, Phyica C **214**, 350 (1993). * [7] J. W. Loram, K. A.
Mirza, and P. A. Freeman, Physica C **171**, 243 (1990). * [8] J. W.
Loram, K. A. Mirza, P. M. Freeman, and J. J. Tallon, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **4**, S184 (1991). * [9] K. Maki, Physics **1**, 127 (1964). *
[10] G. Eilenberger, Phys. Rev. **153**, 584 (1967). * [11] V. J. Emery,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2794 (1987). * [12] A. W. Sleight, Science
**242**, 1519 (1988). * [13] R. J. Cava, Science **247**, 656 (1990). *
[14] G. Xiao, M. Z. Cieplak, A. Gavrin, F. H. Streitz, A. Bakhshai, and
C. L. Chien, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 1446 (1988). * [15] J. M.
Tarascon, P. Barboux, P. F. Miceli, L. H. Greene, and G. W. Hull, Phys.
Rev. B **37**, 7458 (1988). * [16] G. Xiao, M. Z. Cieplak, D. Musser, A.
Gavrin, F. H. Streitz, C. L. Chien, J. J. Rhyne, and J. A. Gotaas,
Nature **332**, 238 (1988). * [17] H. Shaked, Jr., J. Faber, B. W. Veal,
R. L. Hitterman, and A. P. Paulikas, Solid State Commun. **75**, 445
(1990). * [18] N. Peng, Ph.D. thesis, University of Cambridge, 1992. *
[19] M. Mehbod, P. Wyder, R. Deltour, P. H. Duvigneaud, and G. Naessens,
Phys. Rev. B **36**, 8819 (1987). * [20] F. J. Blunt, Ph.D. thesis,
University of Cambridge, 1990. * [21] A. M. Campbell, J. Phys. C **2**,
1492 (1969). * [22] A. M. Campbell, J. Phys. C **4**, 3186 (1969). *
[23] A. M. Campbell, in _Magnetic Susceptibility of Superconductors and
Other Spin Systems_, edited by R. A. Hein, T. L. Francavilla, and D. H.
Liebenberg (Plenum, New York, 1992). * [24] A. Carrington, A. P.
Mackenzie, C. T. Lin, and J. R. Cooper, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2855
(1992). * [25] A. Porch, H. M. Cheah, and J. R. Waldram, Physica B
**165-166**, 1199 (1990). * [26] D. Shoenberg, _Superconductivity_
(Cambridge University Press, United Kingdom, 1960). * [27] S. M. Anlage,
H. Sze, H. J. Snortland, S. Tahara, B. Langley, C. B. Eom, M. R.
Beasley, and R. Taber, Appl. Phys. Lett. **54**, 2710 (1989). * [28] J.
R. Cooper, C. T. Chu, L. W. Zhou, B. Dunn, and G. Gruner, Phys. Rev. B
**37,** 638 (1988). * [29] L. Krusin-Elbaum, R. J. Green, F. Holtzberg,
A. P. Malozemoff, and Y. Yeshurun, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 217
(1989). * [30] S. Mitra, J. H. Cho, W. C. Lee, D. C. Johnston, and V. K.
Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 2674 (1989). * [31] D. R. Harshman, L. F.
Schneemeyer, J. V. Waszczak, G. Aeppli, R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, L. W.
Rupp, E. J. Ansaldo, and D. L. Williams, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 851
(1989). * [32] U. Welp, W. K. Kowk, G. W. Crabtree, K. G. Vandervoot,
and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1908 (1989). * [33] D. E.
Farrell, J. P. Rice, D. M. Ginsberg, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**64**, 1573 (1990). * [34] U. Welp, S. Flesher, W. K. Kwok, R. A.
Klemm, V. M. Vinokur, J. Downey, and G. W. Grabtree, in _High
Temperature Superconductivity_, edited by S. K. Malik and S. S. Shah
(Nova Science, New York, 1992). * [35] A. B. Pippard, Proc. R. Soc.
London, Ser. A **216**, 547 (1953). * [36] T. E. Faber and A. B.
Pippard, Proc. R. Soc. London, Ser. A **231**, 336 (1955). * [37] H.
Adrian, W. Assmus, A. Hohr, J. Kadowski, H. Spille, and F. Steglich,
Physica C **162-164**, 329 (1989). * [38] A. Umezawa, G. W. Crabtree, K.
G. Vandervoot, U. Welp, W. K. Kowk, and J. Z. Liu, Physica C
**162-164**, 733 (1989). * [39] M. Wacenovsky, H. W. Weber, O. B. Hyun,
D. K. Finnemore, and K. Mereiter, Physica C **160**, 55 (1989). * [40]
V. N. Kopylov and I. F. Schegolev, Physica C **162-164**, 1143 (1989). *
[41] M. Sato, S. Shamoto, M. Sera, and H. Fujishita, Solid State Commun.
**72**, 689 (1989). * [42] J. P. Strobel, A. Thoma, B. Hensel, H.
Adrian, and K. Saeman-Ischenco Physica C **153-155**, 1537 (1988). *
[43] T. Koyama, N. Takezawa, and M. Tachiki, Physica B **165-166**, 1105
(1990). * [44] D. S. Hirashima and T. Matsuura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**59**, 24 (1990). * [45] M. Naito, A. Matsuda, K. Kitazawa, S. Kambe,
I. Tanaka, and H. Kojima, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 4823 (1990). * [46] A. S.
Aleksandrov and D. A. Samachenko, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **99**, 574
(1991) [Sov. Phys. JETP **72**, 321 (1991)]. * [47] A. Porch, J. R.
Cooper, H. M. Cheah, J. S. Edmonds, and J. R. Waldram, Physica B
**165-166**, 1199 (1990). * [48] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [49] M. Tinkham and C. J.
Lobb, _Solid State Physics_ (Academic, New York, 1989), Vol. 42, p.
91. * [50] J. R. Clem, Physica C **153-155**, 50 (1988). * [51] C. P.
Bean, Rev. Mod. Phys. **36**, 31 (1964). * [52] H. W. Weber, H. P.
Wiesinger, W. Kritscha, and F. M. Sauerzopf, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**4**, S301 (1990). * [53] L. Civale, A. D. Marwick, M. W. McElfresh, T.
K. Worthington, A. P. Malozemoff, F. H. Holtzberg, J. R. Thompson, and
M. A. Kirk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 1164 (1990). * [54] L. Civale, A.
D. Marwick, T. K. Worthington, M. A. Kirk, J. R. Thompson, L.
Krusin-Elbaum, Y. Sun, and F. Holtzberg, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 648
(1991). * [55] M. Murakami, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **5**, 185
(1992). * [56] J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7837 (1991). * [57] D.
H. Kim, K. E. Gray, R. T. Kampwirth, J. C. Smith, P. Richeson, T. J.
Marks, and M. Eddy, Physica C **193**, 67 (1991). * [58] R. S. Liu, D.
N. Zheng, J. W. Loram, K. A. Mirza, A. M. Campbell, and P. P. Edwards,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **36**, 31 (1992).
