# Penetration depth and anisotropy in MgB₂

X. H. Chen, Y. Y. Xue, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu

Department of Physics and Texas Center for Superconductivity, University
of Houston, Houston, Texas 77204-5932

28 February 200121 September 200128 February 200121 September 2001

###### Abstract

The penetration depth λ of MgB₂ was deduced from both the ac
susceptibility χ and the magnetization M(H) of sorted powders. The good
agreement between the two sets of data without geometric correction for
the grain orientation suggests that MgB₂ is an isotropic superconductor.

pacs: 74.25.Ha, 74.25.Bt + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B,
VOLUME 64, 172501

28 February 200121 September 2001

28 February 200121 September 2001

Great interest has been raised recently by the discovery[1] of MgB₂ with
T_(c) about 40 K. In its normal state, the compound appears to be a
metal with a low dc resistivity,[2] Hall coefficient,[3] and
thermoelectric power[4] dominated by hole carriers. The estimated long
mean free path[2] implies that the electrical transport could well be
isotropic in spite of its layerlike crystalline structure, in agreement
with the band-structure calculations.[5] Below a transition temperature
of T_(c) 40 K, the compound seems to be a phonon-mediated BCS
superconductor, as suggested by the large isotopic effect[6] and the
large negative pressure effect[4] on T_(c) . The upper critical field,
H_(c2)(T), has been directly measured above 20 K with a linear (or even
an upward curvature) T dependence.[7] The lower critical field was
either indirectly estimated based on the thermodynamics field H_(c)(T)
above 34 K or calculated based on the nonlinearity in M(H) at low
temperatures.[7, 8] The coherence length ξ₀ (0 K), penetration depth λ
(0 K), and Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ were consequentially estimated to
be 5.2 nm, 125-140 nm, and 26, respectively. All these calculations,
however, were based on the assumption that MgB₂ can be treated as
isotropic. Otherwise, a geometric factor up to 2 would be needed to
correct the random grain orientation and to convert M_(r) to H_(c) .

To estimate the anisotropy, λ of MgB₂ was directly measured using both
ac susceptibility and the nonlinearity in the M(H) of powder samples.
Although the two procedures involve the anisotropy of λ in very
different ways, the λ(5 K)’s deduced from these procedures are in good
agreement without geometric corrections for superconducting anisotropy.
The results therefore suggest that the anisotropy of MgB₂ is very small.

Ceramic MgB₂ samples were prepared using the solid-state reaction
method.[6] Small Mg chips (99.8

The XRD pattern can be indexed as a hexagonal cell with lattice
parameters a = 3.08 A and c = 3.52 A. A sharp superconducting transition
was observed in both resistivity and ac susceptibility with T_(c) 38
K.[4]

The transition temperature in different fields, T_(c)(H), was determined
from both the dc magnetization and the ac susceptibility measurements,
which should be equivalent to a local resistivity measurement, with a dc
bias of 0-5 T. The transition width in the ac susceptibility is only
slightly broadened under fields, i.e., from ≈ 1 K at the bias field of
H_(dc) = 0 T to ≈ 5 K at 5 T (inset, Fig. 1). We attribute this to the
flux movement under fields and take the onset temperature as T_(c)(H)
(Fig. 1). The data from the two methods are reasonably consistent with a
slope dH_(c2)/dT 0.4 ± 0.05 T/K near 38 K, in agreement with the results
obtained by Finnemore _et al.[7]_

The lower critical field was measured in powder samples with a particle
size <2 μm to avoid the complications caused by intergrain coupling.[9]
No systematic variation be tween the deduced λ(T) and the particle sizes
was observed. This demonstrates that the grain-boundary effect in the
sample is small, a fact that is also supported by direct SEM observation
of the powders.

It is known that the ac susceptibility χ of a superconducting sphere of
diameter d is Φ(d, λ) =  − 3/(8 π)[ 1  − 6(λ/d)coth (d/2λ) + 12(λ/d)²],
which reduces to  ∝ (d/λ)² when d < 2λ. Methods have been previously
developed to deduce λ from the χ of magnetically aligned powders by
solving the equation χ = Φ(d, λ) ≈  − 0.002(d/λ)² in the large-λ
limit.[10] However, the λ so deduced will be sensitive to the
uncertainty of χ (due to either the demagnetization factor or the
superconducting volume fraction) if d ≈ 2λ as in unsorted powders, which
may include particles as large as 3 μm.[10] In fact, the calculated
ϑln λ/ϑln χ varies with d/λ only moderately below d/λ = 4, i.e., from
−0.5 to −0.7, but changes rapidly for larger d/λ. For example,
ϑln λ/ϑln χ is − 3 at d/λ = 20, and a 30

The SEM photo of a powder sample is shown in Fig. 2. Its d distribution
is shown in the inset of Fig. 3. A d =0.88 μm was obtained with
d_(raw) = 1.23μm. The superfluid density 1/λ²(T) was calculated assuming
an isotropic superconductivity, i.e., without corrections for the random
grain orientation (Fig. 3). The 1/λ²(T) observed roughly follows a T
dependency of [1 − (T/39.4)^(2.7)]. It should be noted that a deviation
from the fit is clear below 10 K. We are hesitate, however, to draw any
conclusion about the deviation since weak links cannot be conclusively
excluded at this stage. The extrapolated λ(0) ≈ 180 nm is slightly
longer than that found by Finnemore _et al.[7]_

The lower critical field H_(c1) was also deduced as the field, where the
linear M − H correlation begins to be violated, from the magnetizations
of the same powder sample in an H-increase branch at 5 K (inset, Fig.
4). Several technical difficulties in this method have been previously
discussed: for instance, the intergrain coupling that may cause
nonlinearity far below the intragrain H_(C1); the surface pinning that
can make the H_(C1) value observed higher; sharp local edges, i.e.,
strong local demagnetizing fields, that can lead to a lower one; and the
experimental resolution of the nonlinearity. Several precautions have
been taken. The powder sample used here has a particle size far smaller
than the average grain size, which should eliminate the effect of the
intergrain coupling, as suggested by the smooth and flat χ observed
below T_(c). To improve the sensitivity of nonlinearity, the M(H, 5 K)
below 50 Oe was fit as a linear function of H using a standard
least-square procedure. The deviation ΔM( ≈ 0.002 emu/cm³ below 50 Oe)
from the linear fit is

Figure 2: SEM photo of the powder sample.

comparable with the experimental uncertainties in both M and H,
demonstrating the negligible effect of the residual granularity. The
difference between the data and the extrapolated linear fit above 50 Oe
was then calculated. The uncertainty associated with the linear fitting
was marked as dashed lines in Fig. 4. To further avoid the interferences
from the sharp edges of the particles, the deviation at large fields was
empirically fit as a ⋅ (H − H₀)^(1.8) with both a and H₀ as the free
parameters (Fig. 4). We justify the fit by pointing out that the
magnetization of a superconductor partially penetrated by external
fields will vary as the square of the thickness penetrated, i.e., H − H₀
in the Bean model. It should be pointed out that the value of H₀ is not
very sensitive to the index chosen. A linear fit below 200 Oe leads to
only 15

To further verify the result, the ac susceptibility of the same powder
sample was measured at 5 K with a dc bias between 0 and 200 Oe (Fig. 5).
A change of the slope was observed around H₀≈ 110 Oe, and the H_(c1) was
estimated as ≈ 160 Oe. Similar measurements have been done in several
different samples and the results appear to be independent of the
particle sizes.

The deduced λ is slightly longer than the 140 nm (Ref. [7]) and the ≈
130 nm (Ref. [8]) previously reported. The exact reason for the
disagreement is not clear to us at this moment. However, the λ measured
here using three different methods on the same sample are
self-consistent within the estimated experimental uncertainty of ± 20

It is interesting to note the agreement between the H_(c1) from χ and
M(H). In a highly anisotropic layered superconductor, cuprates for
example, the observed χ will only come from the supercurrents in the
layers. The χ observed therefore should be assumed to be
∫cos²θsin θdθ∫sin θdθ≈ 1/3 of the
−3/(8 π)[1 − 6(λ/d)coth (d/2λ) + 12(λ/d)²]. The deduced λ will be 1.7
times longer if no geometric correction has been made. In general, the
1/λ² deduced from non-grain-aligned powder should be
1/3λ_(ab)²+2/3λ_(c)²=(1/3 + 2/3 γ)/λ_(ab)² in layered superconductors,
where λ_(ab), λ_(c), and γ are the penetration depths in and out of the
layers, and the anisotropy, respectively. The H_(c1) deduced from the
nonlinearity of M − H, on the other hand, can be even larger since the
effective field perpendicular to the local layers is only a fraction,
i.e., cos  θ, of the external field. The good agreement observed here
therefore strongly suggests that MgB₂ is an isotropic superconductor.
The estimated γ should be smaller than 1.5 assuming an experimental
uncertainty of ± 20

In the above data analysis, a spherical shape was assumed. The relative
change of the demagnetization factor is Δr/3r in a slightly deformed
ellipsoid with radii r + Δr, r + Δr/2, and r + Δr/2. A simple
calculation shows that the correction of the H_(c1) will be −
0.25(Δr/r)² in the ac χ method,[12] but Δr/3r in the nonlinearity
method. An average length ratio (r + Δr)/(r − Δr) between 0.5 and 2
(i.e., |Δr/3r| = 1/3) therefore may not significantly change the above
conclusion. The condition seems to be satisfied (Fig. 2).

This conclusion is in agreement with the band-structure calculation, the
extremely long mean free path, the long coherence length, and the small
grain-boundary effect on the supercurrents reported.

In summary, the penetration depth λ(_T_) of MgB₂ was

Figure 4: The deviation ΔM from the linear extrapolation at 5 K. ○:
data; dashed lines: the uncertainty bands of the linear fit; solid line:
a fit of (H − H₀)^(1.8). Inset: M(H) at 5 K.

Figure 5: The ac susceptibility with a dc bias H at 5 K.

deduced from both the ac susceptibility χ of powders and the
nonlinearity of the M − H in the H-increase branch. The good agreement
between the two methods suggests that MgB₂ is an isotropic
superconductor.

The work in Houston was supported in part by NSF Grant No. DMR-9804325,
the T. L. L. Temple Foundation, the John J. and Rebecca Moores
Endowment, and the State of Texas through the Texas Center for
Superconductivity at the University of Houston; and at Lawrence Berkeley
Laboratory by the Director, Office of Energy Research, Office of Basic
Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences of the U.S. Department
of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC03-76SF00098.

## References

* [*]Also at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron Road,
Berkeley, CA 94720. * [2] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y.
Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [3] P.
C. Canfield, D. K. Finnemore, S. L. Bud’ko, J. E. Ostenson, G. Lapertot,
C. E. Cunningham, and C. Petrovic, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 2423
(2001). * [4] W. N. Kang, C. U. Jung, K. H. Kim, M. Park, S. Y. Lee, H.
Kim, E. Choi, K. H. Kim, M. Kim, and S. Lee, Appl. Phys. Lett. **79**,
982 (2001). * [5] B. Lorenz, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B
**64**, 012507 (2001). * [6] J. Kortus, I. I. Mazin, K. D. Belashchenko,
V. P. Antropov, and L. L. Boyer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4656 (2001). *
[7] S. L. Bud’ko, G. Lapertot, C. Petrovic, C. E. Cunningham, N.
Anderson, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). *
[8] D. K. Finnemore, J. E. Ostenson, S. L. Bud’ko, G. Lapertot, and P.
C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 2420 (2001). * [9] Y. Takano, H.
Takeya, H. Fujii, H. Kumakura, T. Hatano, K. Togano, H. Kito, and H.
Ihara, Appl. Phys. Lett. **78**, 2914 (2001). * [10] The grain size in
the initial ceramic sample ranges from 0.5 to 8 μm. * [11] A. Porch, J.
R. Cooper, D. N. Zheng, J. R. Waldram, A. M. Campbell, and P. A.
Freeman, Physica C **214**, 350 (1993). * [12] Y. Y. Xue, B. Lorenz, R.
L. Meng, A. Baikalov, and C. W. Chu, Proceedings of the New³SC-3
Conference, Hawaii, January 2001, Physica C (to be published). * [13]
The first-order correction should be zero due to the random orientations
of the particles.
