# Coexistence of magnetism and superconductivity in
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅

P. G. Pagliuso

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

C. Petrovic

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

R. Movshovich

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

D. Hall

National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Florida State University,
Tallahassee, Florida 32310

M. F. Hundley

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

J. L. Sarrao

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

J. D. Thompson

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

Z. Fisk

National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Florida State University,
Tallahassee, Florida 32310

Received 1 June 2001; published 7 August 2001

###### Abstract

We report a thermodynamic and transport study of the phase diagram of
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅. Bulk superconductivity is observed over a broad
range of doping, 0.3<x≤1, including a substantial range (0.3<x<0.6) over
which it coexists with magnetic order (which is observed for 0.8<x<0.6).
The anomalous transition to zero resistance that is observed in CeIrIn₅
is robust against Rh substitution: the bulk T_(c) in
CeRh_(0.3)Ir_(0.3)In₅ is more than double that of CeIrIn₅, whereas the
zero-resistance transition temperature is relatively unchanged for
0.5<x<1.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.64.100503 + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

In conventional superconductors, magnetism and superconductivity are
usually antithetical: an internal magnetic field breaks time-reversal
symmetry which kills BCS superconductivity.[1] In a few cases (e.g.,
NdRh_(x)B₄. TbMo_(x)S₈, DyNi₂B₂C), superconductivity and magnetic order
coexist, but this rare situation arises from magnetic order among
localized 4f electrons that are uncoupled to itinerant conduction
electrons which form the superconducting condensate.[2] In contrast,
unconventional superconductivity in heavy fermion superconductors
(HFS’s), like the high-T_(c) cuprates, relies on some form of magnetic
coupling to produce superconductivity.[3] These HFS’s appear to fall
into one of two classes: those in which ordered magnetism coexists with
superconductivity and those in which they compete. Most U-based HFS’s
belong to the first category, while the Ce-based superconductors belong
to the second.[4] For example, UPt₃, URu₂Si₂, UNi₂Al₃, and UPd₂Al₃
develop superconductivity out of an antiferromagnetically ordered state
that persists to T= 0. On the other hand, the ground state of the
prototypical HFS CeCu₂Si₂ can be either magnetic or superconducting
depending on small (<1

Here, we report a striking counterexample to the above categorization.
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅ (0.3<x<0.6) displays superconductivity, with
critical temperature T_(c)∼ 1 K over a wide range of composition, that
develops out of and coexists with a magnetically ordered state, with
Neel temperature T_(N)∼ 4 K. The broad range of composition over which
superconductivity is observed (0.3<x≤ 1) is also counter to expectation:
Small amounts of chemical disorder in either U- or Ce-based HFS’s are
generally sufficient to destroy heavy-fermion superconductivity.[7]

CeRhIn₅ is a heavy fermion antiferromagnet (T_(N)= 3.8 K, γ= 400 mJ/mol
K², where γ is the linear-in-T coefficient of heat capacity C at low
temperature) in which superconductivity can be induced with applied
pressure (at critical pressure P_(c)= 16 kbar, T_(c)= 2.1 K, γ= 400
mJ/mol K²).[8, 9] Unlike the Ce-based materials discussed above, in
CeRhIn₅, T_(N) is essentially independent of pressure before
disappearing, and the transition to superconductivity appears to be
first order. The crystal structure in which CeRhIn₅ crystallizes is also
host to two ambient-pressure heavy fermion superconductors: CeIrIn₅
(T_(c)= 0.4 K, γ= 720 mJ/mol K²),[10] and CeCoIn₅ (T_(c)= 2.3 K, γ= 290
mJ/mol K²).[11] CeIrIn₅ displays an additional feature: it exhibits a
zero-resistance transition at 1.2 K, well above the bulk T_(c) .[10] In
order to understand the unconventional magnetic behavior of CeRhIn₅ and
the development of zero-resistance and bulk superconductivity in
CeIrIn₅, we have performed a detailed study of the series of isovalent
alloys CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅. Our principal results, summarized in Fig.
1, are reported below: antiferromagnetism persists for 0<x<0.6 and is
lost rather abruptly as a function of Ir concentration;
superconductivity is observed over a broad range of doping, 0.3<x≤1,
i.e., up to 70

Figure 1: Temperature-composition phase diagram of
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅. $T_{\rm{same}}$ indicates the absence of
(additional) phase transitions for T≈ 350 mK, the base temperature for
our measurements. Lines are guides to the eye.

ions can be replaced and yet superconductivity is retained; and the
separation in temperature between the zero-resistance feature and bulk
superconductivity decreases with increasing Rh doping, approaching zero
separation at CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅.

Single crystals of CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅ were grown from an In flux.[8]
Room-temperature x-ray powder diffraction measurements revealed that the
materials were single phase and crystallized in the primitive tetragonal
HoCoGa₅ structure.[12] In this structure, CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅ can be
viewed as layers of CeIn₅ stacked along the c axis with intervening
layers of "Rh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₂." No superlattice peaks at, e.g.,
$x\!=\!\frac{1}{2}$ were observed. Lattice constants of
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅ are shown in Fig. 2. The a lattice constant, which
is the nearest-neighbor Ce-Ce spacing in this structure, expands with
increasing x, while the c axis shrinks.[12] To the extent that the
measured lattice constants follow Vegard’s law, taking x as the nominal
Rh:Ir ratio of the starting constituents, the nominal composition agrees
well with the actual composition. From these data, we estimate an
uncertainty in x of +/ − 0.05 at a given composition, a variation
consistent with independent estimates from analysis of high-temperature
magnetic susceptibility data and in crystal-to-crystal variations in
ground-state properties. However, the value of x in a given crystal is
always well defined; we observe no evidence for concentration
inhomogeneity or phase segregation as judged by the sharpness of
diffraction peaks and the low values for residual resistivity
[ρ(T →0)<10 μΩ cm for all x] that are observed across the series, as
well as the sharpness of the phase transitions observed in a given
crystal.

In Fig. 3 we show C/T and magnetic entropy S as a function of T for
representative x. Although the ground state changes from
antiferromagnetic (x < 0.3) to superconducting coexisting with
antiferromagnetism (0.3< x <0.6) to superconducting (x >0.6), the total
magnetic entropy evolved by 6 K is nearly independent of x. This
indicates that the same heavy electrons are producing the variety of
observed ground states and, in particular, the coexisting magnetic order
and superconductivity where it is observed. In the following, we discuss
each of these ranges in greater detail.

For low x (x < 0.3), a single phase transition is observed in heat
capacity whose shape and character is similar to that of stoichiometric
CeRhIn₅, in which antiferromagnetic order with
$Q\!=\!(\frac{1}{2}\!,\!\frac{1}{2}\!,\!0.297)$ develops below
T_(N).[13; 14] The onset of order is sharp in temperature, although the
magnitude of the heat-capacity step decreases with increasing x, and the
residual heat capacity below the transition is low. The independence of
T_(N) on x is anomalous and is reminiscent of the pressure independence
of T_(N) in CeRhIn₅.[8] The relative insensitivity of T_(N) to
"out-of-plane" doping contrasts to "in

Figure 4: Electrical resistivity, ac susceptibility, and heat capacity
as a function of temperature for CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅. The solid line
is C = 0.3 T + 1.05 T², a temperature dependence similar to that
observed in CeIrIn₅ (Ref. [16]).

Figure 3: Representative heat capacity divided by temperature (a) and
magnetic entropy (b) versus temperature for CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅.

Figure 2: Tetragonal lattice constants c (circles) and a (squares) for
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅. The solid line is a linear fit to c/a (diamonds)
as a function of x.

plane" doping with La in Ce_(1 − x)La_(x)RhIn₅, where T_(N) decreases
smoothly with increasing x and vanishes for x∼0.4.[15]

For 0.3<x<0.6, T_(N) varies more dramatically with x, the magnetic
transition broadens, and a second heat-capacity transition is observed
in the vicinity of 1 K. CeRh_(0.5)Ir_(0.5)In₅ is the most heavily
studied representative of this doping range, and heat capacity, ac
susceptibility, and resistivity data are shown in Fig. 4. ac
susceptibility measurements reveal that the 0.8-K transition in
CeRh_(0.5)Ir_(0.5)In₅ is to a superconducting state (with 100

For x> 0.6, ordered magnetism is completely suppressed and only a
superconducting ground state is observed. Viewing this part of the phase
diagram from the perspective of Rh-doping CeIrIn₅ reveals several
remarkable features. At low Rh concentrations, T_(c) appears to decrease
with increasing Rh concentration, which is the conventional expectation,
but then, in the vicinity of x∼ 0.9, T_(c) recovers and increases with
increasing Rh concentration. This feature in T_(c) versus x for x∼ 0.9
is reminiscent of what is observed for the pressure dependence of T_(c)
in superconducting CeRhIn₅.[18] In addition to the bulk phase transition
observed by heat capacity, a transition to zero resistance persists over
a wide range of doping. T_(p − 0) is relatively independent of doping so
that T_(c) approaches T_(p − 0) in the vicinity of x= 0.5, resulting in
a value of T_(c) that is more than double that of stoichiometric
CeIrIn₅. The upper critical field deduced from heat capacity
measurements also increases significantly for x∼ 0.5 (H_(c2)= 3 T
compared with 0.5 T for CeIrIn₅), approaching values comparable to those
required to produce a finite resistivity (5 T) in CeIrIn₅.[10]

The remarkably rich phase diagram of CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅ reflects the
inherent "tunability" of ground states allowed by alternating CeIn₃:MIn₂
layers in CeMIn₅.[11] This behavior is not limited to
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅. Both CeRh_(1 − x)Co_(x)In₅ and
CeCo_(1 − x)In_(x)In₅, although studied in less detail, show a similar
multiplicity of phase transitions.[19] In the case of CeRhIn₅, the
evolution from antiferromagnetic to superconducting ground state with
pressure could be understood semiquantitatively by considering the RhIn₅
layer as a source of chemical pressure on the CeIn₃ layer.[8] The
similarity of the T-P phase diagram of CeRhIn₅ to the x dependence of
T_(N) in CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅ suggests that the addition of Ir may act
as an applied pressure. However, the in-plane lattice constant (which
shrinks as a function of pressure) actually increases with increasing Ir
concentration. Thus, "hydrostatic chemical pressure" would appear to be
an inadequate explanation of the observed similarities. On the other
hand, "uniaxial chemical pressure" appears to play a significant role in
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅. If one considers the two ambient-pressure,
stoichiometric superconductors in this family of compounds, CeIrIn₅
(Ref. [10]) and CeCoIn₅,[11] one observes not only a substantial
difference in T_(c) (0.4 K vs 2.3 K) but also a significant difference
in c/a, the ratio of the tetragonal lattice constants (1.610 vs 1.637).
To the extent that a larger c/a implies greater anisotropy, larger T_(c)
for larger c/a is consistent with recent theories of magnetically
mediated superconductivity,[20] The remarkable observation for the
present CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅ results is that the T_(c) in
CeRh_(0.5)Ir_(0.5)In₅ can be "predicted" based on the difference in c/a
between CeRh_(0.5)Ir_(0.5)In₅ and CeIrIn₅ and the slope given by CeCoIn₅
and CeIrIn₅ (i.e., 0.8 K= 0.4 K+ 0.006{1.9 K/0.027}).

The variation in c/a with Ir content, which to some extent must reflect
changes in f-ligand hybridization, also produces trends in the magnetic
susceptibility that correlate with the ground state configuration.
Figure 5 shows the anisotropic magnetic susceptibility for 2 K<T<25 K
for representative x in CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅. χ_(c) , the
susceptibility for field applied along the c axis, and χ_(α) , the
susceptibility for field applied along the a axis, each reveal
characteristic evolutions in T dependence that coincide with different
regions of the x-T phase diagram. With increasing x, the maximum in
χ_(c) near 7 K, which can be associated with two-dimensional (2D)
magnetic fluctuations (and occurs above T_(N)),[8] is suppressed and
evolves into a Curie-like increase. The maximum in χ_(c)(T) disappears
[i.e., χ_(c)(T K)∼χ_(c)(2 K)] for x∼0.4, near the concentration at which
superconductivity is first observed. The magnitude of χ_(c)(7 K) also
reaches a maximum in this range. Thus, it appears that the spin
environment/fluctuation spec

Figure 5: Anisotropic magnetic susceptibility for representative x in
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅. The upper (lower) cluster of curves are for H∥c
(H|a).

trum that influences χ_(c) in these materials is coupled to
superconductivity and is reminiscent of a broader trend observed in
other CeMIn₅ compounds.[11] Accompanying these changes in χ_(c) is a
corresponding evolution in χ_(a)(T): the loss of a maximum and
subsequent drop in magnitude of susceptibility is centered around
x ∼ 0.6, the concentration at which magnetic order is lost. The greater
sensitivity of χ_(a)(T) to magnetic order is consistent with the a axis
being the easy magnetic direction.[13, 14] Thus, even at temperatures
greater than the respective phase transitions, χ_(c)(T) signals the
onset of superconductivity; whereas χ_(a)(T) reveals the loss of
magnetism.

As discussed above, the coexistence of magnetism and superconductivity,
rather than their competition, appears to be the rule and not the
exception for U-based heavy fermion superconductors.
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅ clearly shares this feature. Preliminary
photoemission data suggest another U-like characteristic of these
materials.[21] Despite the observed large values of γ, no suggestion of
a "Kondo resonance" near the Fermi surface is observed in these
materials. Furthermore, local-density-approximation band structure
calculations–which neglect many-body correlation effects–do a
surprisingly good job of describing the electronic properties of
CeMIn₅.[22, 23] It would appear, then, that the relevant f-spectral
weight may be more bandlike than localized, and perhaps such a situation
is more susceptible to the coexistence of magnetism and
superconductivity. Unfortunately, much of our present intuition derives
from the localized limit.[24] Thus, the CeMIn₅ materials and
CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅ in particular may provide an opportunity to bridge
our understanding of U-based and Ce-based heavy fermion
superconductivity.

In summary, we have presented a phase diagram for CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅
that reveals several remarkable features. Superconductivity is observed
over a very broad range of doping, 0.3<χ_(c) ≈ 1, including a
substantial range (0.3<χ_(c) < 0.6) over which it coexists with
long-range magnetic order. The zero-resistance transition observed in
stoichiometric CeIrIn₅ is robust against Rh substitution. In fact, the
bulk T_(c) more than doubles by CeRh_(0.3)Ir_(0.5)In₅, approaching the
relatively unchanged zero-resistance transition temperature. The ground
state evolution with Ir substitution appears to be "controlled" by
changes in c/a, reflective of variations in f-ligand hybridization.

We thank N.J. Curro for valuable discussions. Work at Los Alamos was
performed under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy. Z.F. and
P.G.P. acknowledge partial support from the N.S.F. (Grant Nos.
DMR-9870034 and DMR-9971348), and FAPESP (Grant No. 9901062-0).

## References

* [1] See, e.g., M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [2] M. B. Maple, J. Alloys Compd.
**303**, 1 (2000). * [3] N. D. Mathur _et al._, Nature (London) **394**,
39 (1998). * [4] R. H. Heffner and M. R. Norman, Comments Condens.
Matter Phys. **17**, 361 (1996). * [5] P. Gegenwart _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **81**, 1501 (1998). * [6] For a recent counter-argument, see F.
M. Grosche _et al._, cond-mat/0012118 (unpublished). * [7] N. Grewe and
F. Steglich, in _Handbook on the Chemistry and Physics of Rare Earths_,
edited by K. A. Gschneidner and L. Eyring, Vol. 14 (North-Holland,
Amsterdam, 1991), p. 343. * [8] H. Hegger _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**84**, 4986 (2000). * [9] J. D. Thompson _et al._, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **226**, 5 (2001). * [10] C. Petrovic _et al._, Europhys. Lett.
**53**, 354 (2001). * [11] C. Petrovic _et al._, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **13**, L337 (2001). * [12] E. Moshopoulou _et al._, J. Solid
State Chem. **158**, 25 (2001). * [13] N. J. Curro _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **62**, 6100 (2000). * [14] W. Bao _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 14
621 (2000). * [15] P. G. Pagliuso _et al._ (unpublished). * [16] R.
Movshovich _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5152 (2001). * [17] R. H.
Heffner _et al._ (unpublished); neutron diffraction measurements confirm
that this static magnetization results from an ordered magnetic
structure similar to that of CeRhIn₅ [W. Bao _et al._ (unpublished)]. *
[18] T. Muramatsu _et al._ (unpublished). * [19] P. G. Pagliuso _et
al._, cond-mat/0107266 (unpublished). * [20] P. Monthoux and G. G.
Lonzarich, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 054529 (2001). * [21] J. J. Joyce _et
al._ (unpublished). * [22] Y. Haga _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 060503
(2001). * [23] D. Hall _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 064506 (2001). *
[24] S. Doniach, in _Valence Instabilities and Related Narrow Band
Phenomena_, edited by R. D. Parks (Plenum, New York, 1977), p. 169.
