**Superconductivity of the oxycarbonate Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr4Cu2CO3O7: A
magnetic study**

S. Peluau, A. Maignan, Ch. Simon, and A. Wahl

_Laboratoire CRISMAT, Institut des Sciences de la Matiere et du
Rayonnement, Universite de Caen, Boulevard du Marechal Juin, 14050 Caen
Cedex, France_

Received 28 February 1994

The magnetic behavior of the 71-K superconductor Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr4Cu2CO3O7,
which consists of an intergrowth of the two nonsuperconducting phases
Sr2CuO2CO3 and Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr2CuO5, has been studied. Its pinning
properties in terms of the critical current density _Jc_ and the
irreversibility line have been established using a modified-Bean-model
expression for the magnetization data and compared to results for other
thallium cuprates. Typical _Jc_ was calculated to be  8 x 106 A/cm2 at 5
K in a field of 0.2 T. The analysis of the reversible magnetization,
leading to basic values of the parameters for this oxycarbonate as l0 =
170 nm, _g_m0 = 2.39 nm and k = 72.5, was also performed. The latter
values are compared to other existing data especially those concerning
the thallium-based superconductors which have been derived from similar
analyses. This study shows that the superconducting behavior of this
oxycarbonate is closer to multiple copper layered cuprates than to the
single copper layer "1201" phase although carbonate groups connect two
successive copper layers. It can be considered as intermediate between
the thallium bilayer cuprates and the best lead-doped "1223" and "1212"
superconductors.

## INTRODUCTION

The recent discovery of a series of superconductive copper oxycarbonates
(see for a review Refs. 1 and 2), with _T_c’s up to 80 K states the
issue of the role of carbonate groups in superconductivity for these
materials. This is especially the case of the 71-K superconductor
Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr4Cu2CO3O7,3 which exhibits a rather sharp transition and a
significant diamagnetic volume fraction of 65

A common feature of this oxycarbonate with the thallium cuprates deals
with the anisotropy of its structure, which may induce, as in the latter
a high anisotropy of its superconducting properties. The investigation
of superconductivity in the thallium oxycarbonate is of capital
importance, since it has been shown that the physical properties of most
of the thallium cuprates exhibit low capacities to carry superconducting
current at T > > 4.2 K, so that their potential applications are
limited. In particular, the positions of the irreversibility lines of
such materials in the _H_-_T_ plane are too low. Among the different
thallium cuprates, it has been demonstrated that the monolayer ones
exhibit better intrinsic pinning properties than the bilayers.8,9 A
model, based on weak Josephson coupling of the CuO2 layers between the
rock-salt-type layers, has been proposed to explain such a difference;
it predicts that the irreversibility line is steepened when the
thickness of the rock-salt-type layers decreases.8 This may also explain
the relatively good intrinsic pinning properties of the lead-based
monolayer cuprate Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr2Ca2Cu3O9 abbreviated "TIPb-1:2:2:3", 9-11

For these reasons we have investigated the superconducting properties of
the "TIPb" oxycarbonate Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr4Cu2CO3O7. Magnetic measurements
have been performed on the corresponding ceramic. Pinning properties and
characteristic superconducting parameters are derived here. These
results are compared with exist

Figure 1: Schematic structures of Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr4Cu2CO3O7 (a) and
Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr2CuO5 (b).

ing data on the different thallium-based superconducting cuprates,
especially with data determined by magnetization measurements on
polycrystalline samples.

## Experimental

A polycrystalline sample Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr4Cu2CO3O7 was prepared by the
solid-state reaction method described in Ref. [3]. In this technique,
the reaction is carried out in a silica ampoule in order to prevent
thallium losses oxides and CO2. The resulting product is an almost pure
phase with some traces of TlPb-1201 and SrCO3. As-synthesized samples
are found to be superconductors with 20 K <= T_(c) <= 60 K and
low-temperature annealings [290 degC in argon-hydrogen flow (H2 10

In order to obtain basic superconducting parameters of this
oxycarbonate, magnetic measurements were carried out using a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer with
field ranging from 0 to 5 T and temperature from 5 K to T_(c). A pause
of 600 s was applied after each magnetic-field settling when hysteresis
loops were recorded in order to achieve good stability; a 2-cm scan
length involving a small field inhomogeneity (0.1

## Irreversible properties

Magnetization loops at different temperatures were recorded in order to
extract J_(c) values which are known to be strongly depressed by the
temperature increase in thallium-based superconductors.12 The Bean model
modified for a polycrystalline sample was used with a grain size of  3
μm to determine the limit of current flow in the individual grains. If
one considers the anisotropy of such superconductors then J_(c) is
mainly dominated by the H∥c component of the magnetization, and thus if
θ is the angle between the magnetic-field direction and the c-axis
direction of one grain of powder, then the magnetization difference
Δm(B) = m(B₊) − m(B⁻) measured for all the grain assembly is related to
the critical current density in the ab plane by the relation:

KΔm(B) = ∫₀^(π/2) J_(c)(B cosθ) cosθ sinθ dθ ,

with K = 30/d for platelet grains of mean diameter d in the Bean model.
Equation (1) can also be written

B²Δm(B) = K⁻¹∫₀^(B) B^(′)J_(c)(B^(′))dB^(′)

considering B^(′) = B cosθ. Then,

$$J_{c}\left( B \right) = KB^{-1}\frac{d\left[ B^{2}\Delta m\left( B \right) \right]}{dB}\text{ .}$$

This model for polycrystalline samples was successfully tested by a
comparison with single crystals on Tl2Ba2CaCu2O8 and Tl2Ba2Ca2Cu3O10.
These results will be published elsewhere.

In Fig. 4(a), J_(c) values from Eq. (2) are presented in a semi-log plot
with temperature ranging from 5 to 55 K. One can see that at low field
and low temperature (5 K) J_(c) values reach a maximum of  8 x 106 A
cm-2; such data are typical of superconducting copper oxides. But in
fact, as soon as the temperature increases, J_(c) falls off rapidly when
the magnetic field increases.

In order to compare the classical Bean analysis and the

Figure 2: **Ac susceptibility versus temperature of
Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr4Cu2CO3O7 (H_(as) = 80 A m−1, f = 80 Hz). In the inset the
first magnetization versus applied magnetic field registered with a
SQUID magnetometer at 5 K of the same sample is also given.**

corrected one for grains of anisotropic superconductors [Eq. (2)], the
corresponding sets of J_(c)’s at 40 K are reported in Fig. 4(b). In the
inset is also shown the magnetization curve m(H) at this temperature.
This clearly establishes that J_(c) after correction is higher in the
low-field region and also that corrected J_(c) decreases faster as H or
T increases. This is also evidenced in Fig. 5 where the irreversibility
lines B^(*) (defined as J_(c) = 0 for B > B^(*)) versus reduced
temperature t are represented and correspond to the same J_(c) = 10⁴ A
cm⁻² criterion applied to J_(c)’s data obtained with or without
correction of the Bean model. Experimental data of B^(*)(t) for
Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr2Ca2Cu3O9 from Ref. 13 are also reported; this
irreversibility line corresponds also to a polycrystalline sample where
no corrections have been performed. So the uncorrected B^(*)(t) plot for
the oxycarbonate is to be compared to the TlPb-1223 irreversibility line
showing that Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr4Cu2CO3O7 pinning properties are less
efficient. To our knowledge no irreversibility lines of TlPb-1223 single
crystals have been reported. In order to compare the irreversibility
line of the oxycarbonate after correction by our model the B^(*)(t)
curves of Tl2Ba2CaCu2O8 ("TI-2212") and Tl2Ba2Ca2Cu3O10 ("TI-2223")
single crystals [14] are also reported in Fig. 5; the comparison shows
that the oxycarbonate B^(*)(t) line is higher in the (H, T) plane than
the lines of the bilayer thallium cuprates.

It is remarkable that this oxycarbonate, which consists of single copper
layers, exhibits a significantly higher irreversibility line than all
the thallium bilayer cuprates whatever their structure of copper layers.
Nevertheless its B^(*)(t) line remains low compared to the thallium lead
monolayer cuprates Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr2CaCu3O9 ("TIPb-1223") and
Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr2Ca0.8Y0.2Cu3O7 ("TIPb-1212"). [9]

## 8 Reversible properties

The reversible part of the hysteresis loop, i.e., above the
irreversibility line, provides a region in the (H, T) plane where the
superconducting parameters can be extracted. In the intermediate-field
region of H_(c1) <  < H < H_(c2), the London model predicts a linear
dependence of m upon lnH although minor corrections could be added as
discussed by Hao _et al._[15] Recently, Zheng, Campbell, and Liu have
used the latter analysis to extract basic superconducting parameters of
two thallium-based compounds TlPb-1223 and Tl-2223. [16] Their results
demonstrate that in the range of magnetic field 0-5 T the linear regime
of m(H) (Abrikosov formula) was never reached. So we have only
considered the London model to fit our m = f(ln H) data applying a
derived equation with κ and H_(c) as parameters:

Figure 4: (a) J_(c) values derived from magnetization versus field
measurements at the different temperatures labeled on the graph. J_(c)’s
are calculated with Eq. (2). (b) J_(c)(H) at 40 K calculated with the
classical Bean model and with the corrected one for a polycrystalline
sample [Eq. (2)]. Inset the corresponding initial m(H) loop registered
at 40 K.

$$m=\frac{H_{c}}{8\pi\sqrt{2}\kappa}\left[-\frac{1}{4}+\frac{1}{2}\ln\frac{H}{\beta \sqrt{2}\kappa H_{c}}\right]\ .$$
(3)

This expression derives from the London model expression

$$-4\pi m=\frac{\phi_{0}}{8\pi\lambda_{ab}^{2}}\ln\left[\frac{\beta H_{c2}}{H}\ \right]$$
(4)

with β ∼ 1.16; considering the powder form of the sample, the latter
relation must be corrected similarly to previous work on Tl-2223 and
HgBa₂CuO₄ (Ref. [17]) where the magnetization (m) was calculated for
fully random crystallites yielding Eq. (3).

The experimental data m = f( ln H) and the associated fits with Eq. (3)
are represented in Fig. 6.

For each series of data κ and H_(c) have been adjusted over a range of
magnetic fields from 1 to 5 T. The resulting κ and H_(c) are reported in
Fig. 7. This oxycarbonate exhibits an average κ value of 72.5 indicating
the extreme type-II character of this superconductor. As described by
Zheng, Campbell, and Liu,[16]κ diverges close to T_(c) in the regime
where fluctuations become important.

The H_(c)(0) value was extrapolated using the empirical formula

$$H_{c}(T)\!=\!H_{c}(0)\left[1\!-\left[\frac{T}{T_{c}}\right]^{2}\right]\ .$$
(5)

Fitting with this formula (see Fig. 7) yields T_(c) = 71.8 K and
H_(c)(0) = 0.56 T. The latter value is smaller than that of Tl-1223 and
Tl-2223,[16] which are, respectively, 0.92 and 0.79 T.

At this point of the analysis, H_(c2)(0) can be derived since
$H_{c2}(T)\!=\!\kappa\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ leading to the slope
dH_(c2)/dT =  − 1.2 T/K. Using the Werthamer, Helfand, and Hohenberg
equation,[18] an estimation of H_(c2)(0) is obtained and consequently
ξ_(ab)(0), since H_(c2)(0) = ϕ₀/2πξ_(ab)²(0), where ϕ₀ is the flux
quantum. Finally, one can also calculate H_(c1)(0) and λ_(ab)(0) from
the relations $H_{c1}(0)\!=\!H_{c}(0)\ln\!\kappa/\sqrt{2}\kappa$ and
$\sqrt{2}H_{c}(0)\!=\!\kappa\phi_{0}/2\pi\lambda_{ab}^{2}(0)$ using the
average value for κ. All these data are summarized in Table 1.

For the in-plane London penetration depth (λ_(ab)) determination, the
slopes of the different m= f( ln H) curves

Figure 8: λ_(ab)⁻² versus T deduced from the M − ln  H slopes with
formula (6). Solid line is a fit with Eq. (7).

Figure 6: Reversible magnetization m upon magnetic field H corresponding
to the different temperatures indicated on the graph. The solid lines
are fits obtained with Eq. (3).

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of H_(c) determined by fitting with Eq.
(3) the reversible parts of the m(H) plots with the average κ value of
72.5 [see also κ(T) in the inset]. Solid line corresponds to the fit to
Eq. (5).

have also been computed considering the relation:

$$\frac{\delta(4\pi m)}{\delta\ln H} = \frac{\phi_{0}}{16\pi\lambda_{ab}^{2}(T)}$$

This method has been previously used to analyze reversible magnetization
data of polycrystalline thallium cuprates Tl-2212 and Tl-2223.19,20 Our
data are represented in the form λ_(ab)⁻² versus T in Fig. 8. The
straight line is a fit using the weak-coupling clean-limit expression:

$$\lambda_{ab}^{-2}(T) = 2\lambda_{ab}^{-2}(0) \times \left[ {1 - \frac{T}{T_{c}}} \right]$$

with corresponding values l_(b)(0) = 188 nm and T_(c) = 70.4 K, this
T_(c) value being very close to T_(c) = 71 K measured by ac
susceptibility. Both l_(b)(0) values for the oxycarbonate are very
similar to those of Ref. 16 for Tl-2223 and TlPb-1223.

## DISCUSSION

The central point of the study was to report for superconducting basic
parameters of an oxycarbonate. When considering the data, the first
remark concerns their good agreement with values previously published
for superconducting cuprates. For instance, the value of l_(b)(0) = 170
nm is concordant with values reported for thallium cuprates. For these
compounds a lot of data have already been published, ranging from  110
to  240 nm,14,16,17,19,20 these two extreme values correspond to Tl-2223
and derive from similar magnetic measurements. Our value is close to
that of Zheng, Campbell, and Liu16 for TlPb-1223 (l_(b) = 180 nm). But
the T_(c) value is 115 K for TlPb-1223, roughly  50 K higher than that
of the oxycarbonate. If one considers that in the clean limit the
relation λ⁻² ∝ n_(s)/m^(*) is valid and taking into account the relation
n_(s)/m^(*) ∝ T_(c) deduced from _m_SR measurements carried out on
Tl2Ba2CuO6 +- ("T1-2201") (Ref. 21) for different levels of hole doping,
thus a l_(b) value close to that of TlPb-1223 may indicate that the
T_(c) of the oxycarbonate is quite optimized.

Nevertheless, the mean k value (_k_ = 72.5) is much smaller than k of
TlPb-1223 or Tl-2223 and corresponds to a larger f_(b)(0) value for the
oxycarbonate (f_(b)(0) = 2.39 nm) to be compared for instance to
f_(b)(0) = 1.17 nm for TlPb-1223. This major difference may be a
consequence of the difference of _T__c_’s (T_(c) = 71 K for
Tl0.5Pb0.5SrCu2CO3O7 against T_(c) = 115 K for Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr2Ca2Cu3O9),
since the superconducting gap D in BCS theory is proportional to _g_-1
and proportional to T_(c). This is in agreement with the fact that
La1.85Sr0.15CuO4 exhibits a lower T_(c) value (T_(c) = 35 K) than the
oxycarbonate (T_(c) = 71 K) but a larger f_(b)(0) value [_f__ab_(0) = 32
nm].22

## CONCLUSION

This set of data for the oxycarbonate Tl0.5Pb0.5Sr4Cu2CO3O7 clearly
demonstrates the original character of this superconductor. This
material that is characterized like the 1201 cuprates by thallium
monolayers, exhibits much higher T_(c) and pinning properties that are
intermediate between those of bilayer thallium cuprates and those of the
best monolayer lead-doped thallium "TlPb-1223" cuprates. Consequently
this thallium lead oxycarbonate behaves more like a multiple copper
layer cuprate rather than a single copper-layer phase. Thus the study of
superconducting oxycarbonates is of importance especially for the
prospect of new high-_T__c_ materials and for the understanding of
superconductivity. A comparison with other oxycarbonates is now in
progress particularly with TlBa2Sr2Cu2CO3O7 (T_(c) = 62 K) whose
modulated structure derives also from the 1201-type.23

Footnote 23: The authors thank Professor B. Raveau for valuable
discussions. Laboratoire CRISMAT is Unité de Recherche Associée au CNRS
No. 1318.

## References

* [1] B. Raveau, M. Huve, A. Maignan, M. Hervieu, C. Michel, B.
Domenges, and C. Martin, Physica C **209**, 163 (1993). * [2] C. Michel,
M. Hervieu, C. Martin, A. Maignan, B. Domenges, and B. Raveau, in
_Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Superconducting
Materials_, Paris, 1993, edited by J. Etourneau, J. B. Torrance, and H.
Yamauchi (IITT-International, Paris, 1993), pp. 15-21. * [3] M. Huve, C.
Michel, A. Maignan, M. Hervieu, C. Martin, and B. Raveau, Physica C
**205**, 219 (1993). * [4] C. Martin, D. Bourgault, C. Michel, J.
Provost, M. Hervieu, and B. Raveau, Eur. J. Inorg. Solid State Chem.
**26**, 1 (1989). * [5] M. H. Pan and M. Greenblatt, Physica C **176**,
80 (1991). * [6] Y. Miyazaki, H. Yamane, T. Kajitani, T. Oku, K. Higara,
Y. Morii, K. Fuchizaki, S. Funahashi, and T. Hirai, Physica C **191**,
344 (1992). * [7] A. R. Armstrong and P. P. Edwards, J. Solid State
Chem. **98**, 432 (1992). * [8] D. H. Kim, K. E. Gray, R. T. Kampwirth,
J. C. Smith, D. S. Richeson, T. J. Marks, J. H. Kang, J. Talvacchio, and
M. Eddy, Physica C **177**, 431 (1991). * [9] M. R. Presland, J. L.
Tallon, N. E. Flower, R. G. Buckley, A. Mawdsley, M. P. Staines, and M.
G. Fee, Cryogenics **33**, 502 (1993). * [10] K. Aihara, T. Doi, A.
Soeta, S. Takeuchi, T. Yuasa, M. Seido, T. Kamo, and S. Matsuda,
Cryogenics **32**, 936 (1992). * [11] R. S. Liu, D. N. Zheng, J. W.
Loram, K. A. Mirza, A. M. Campbell, and P. P. Edwards, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**60**, 1019 (1992). * [12] A. P. Malozemoff, _Physical Properties of
High Temperature Superconductors I_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1989), p. 71. * [13] T. Yuasa, T. J. Doi, A.
Soeta, N. Inoue, K. Aihara, T. Kamo, and S. P. Matsuda, Jpn. J. Appl.
Phys. **31**, L1176 (1992). * [14] A. Maignan, C. Martin, V. Hardy, Ch.
Simon, M. Hervieu, and B. Raveau, Physica C **219**, 407 (1994). * [15]
Z. Hao, J. R. Clem, M. W. Mc Elfresh, L. Civale, A. P. Maol zemoff, and
F. Holtzberg, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2844 (1991). * [61] D. N. Zheng, A.
M. Campbell, and R. S. Liu, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 6519 (1993). * [62] J.
R. Thompson, J. G. Ossandon, D. K. Christen, B. C. Chakoumakos, Y. R.
Sun, M. Paranthaman, and J. Brynestad, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 14 031
(1993). * [63] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys.
Rev. B **147**, 295 (1966). * [64] A. Schilling, F. Hulliger, and H. R.
Ott, Z. Phys. B Condens. Matter **82**, 9 (1991). * [65] J. R. Thompson,
D. K. Christen, H. A. Deeds, Y. C. Kim, J. Brynestad, S. T. Sekula, and
J. Budai, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 7293 (1990). * [66] Y. J. Uemura, A.
Keren, L. P. Le, G. M. Luke, W. D. Wu, Y. Kubo, T. Manako, Y. Shimikawa,
M. Subramanian, J. L. Cobb, and J. T. Markert, Nature (London) **364**,
605 (1993). * [67] Q. Li, M. Suenaga, T. Kimura, and K. Kishio, Phys.
Rev. B **47**, 11 384 (1993). * [68] F. Goutenoire, M. Hervieu, A.
Maignan, C. Michel, C. Martin, and B. Raveau, Physica C **210**, 359
(1993).

Figure 1: Schematic structures of Tl_(0.5)Pb_(0.5)Sr₄Cu₄CO₃O₇ (a) and
Tl_(0.5)Pb_(0.5)Sr₂CuO₄ (b).

Figure 3: TEM microstructure from a bar of Tl_(0.5)Pb_(0.5)Sr₄Cu₂CO₃O₇.
