Effect of Zn substitution on the normal-state magnetoresistivity of
epitaxial Y0.95Ca0.05Ba2(Cu1-_x_Zn_x_)3Oy and Y0.9Ca0.1Ba2Cu3Oy films

I. Kokanovic, J. R. Cooper, S. H. Naqib, and R. S. Islam

IRC in Superconductivity and Department of Physics, University of
Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 OHE, United Kingdom

R. A. Chakalov

Physics Department, University of Birmingham, United Kingdom

Received 13 September 2005; revised manuscript received 17 March 2006;
published 5 May 2006

###### Abstract

We report measurements of the in-plane resistivity, magnetoresistivity
(MR) and Hall effect of thin films of slightly under and nearly
optimally doped Y0.95Ca0.05Ba2(Cu1-_x_Zn_x_)Oy (with x = 0, 0.02, 0.04)
and overdoped Y0.95Ca0.1Ba2Cu3Oy. We found that the introduction of Zn
as a dopant strongly suppresses the orbital MR in the normal state.
Surprisingly it can be fitted to a _T_-4 law at lower temperatures where
the resistivity and cotangent of the Hall angle cot _th_ are relatively
constant and no longer obey the usual T1 and T2 laws, respectively. In
other words, in these samples the increase in residual scattering rate
produced by Zn has a stronger effect on cot _th_ than on the MR at low
T. It seems that this new result requires some modification of
well-known theories involving two distinct relaxation processes for
transport and Hall currents.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.73.184509 PACS number(s): 74.25.Fy,
74.40.+k, 74.62.Dh, 74.72.Bk + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**73**, 184509 (2006)

## I Introduction

Understanding the normal state properties of cuprate superconductors,
including the unusual variation with temperature and hole concentration
of the Hall angle and the magnetoresistance (MR) could be an important
step towards a correct microscopic theory of cuprate superconductivity.
The hole concentration is usually expressed in terms of a parameter p,
the number of added holes per CuO2 plane. Current understanding is that
the overdoped region, where the pseudogap (PG) energy scale is zero,
occurs when p > 0.19, [1] although even in this region the normal state
transport properties are still anomalous. The optimally doped state
where _T_c is a maximum is at p = 0.16.

There have been several theories of cuprate magnetotransport. In
Anderson’s theory [2] the response of the correlated electron system to
a longitudinal electric field differs from the response to the Lorentz
force, because the former alters the energy of an elementary excitation,
while the latter only alters its transverse momentum. This difference
gives rise to two distinct scattering times, t_(r) and t_(H) governing
the in-plane resistivity r_(h) and Hall angle _th__H_, respectively. [2,
3, 4]τ_(H) is predicted to obey the law 1/_t__H_ = A + _B_T_2 where the
residual scattering term A increases linearly with Zn content and the
coefficient B is constant, in approximate agreement with experimental
data. [4] In this theory it is expected that the MR will vary as t_(H).
Strictly speaking the theory predicts the orbital magnetoconductance,
but for the large MR effects studied here, this is very similar to the
orbital MR, which is defined experimentally as the difference between
the MR values for J ⊥ B and J ∥_B_, where J is the current density and B
the magnetic field.

A second approach ascribes the appearance of two relaxation times to the
charge-conjugation symmetries of the elementary excitations or
quasiparticles [5] (or in other words their electron-hole symmetries).
In this theory the Hall current, which corresponds to the difference in
electron and hole contributions, has a completely different relaxation
time to the transport current which is the sum of electron and hole
contributions.

A third, more conventional approach, is based on the idea of a Fermi
liquid with well-defined quasiparticles whose relaxation time t is
strongly dependent on their wave vector **k**. [6, 7, 8, 9, 10] This
basic idea has been explored by several authors with various degrees of
success. [6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11] Such a strong **k** dependence is a
natural consequence of the nearly antiferromagnetic Fermi liquid (NAFL)
model developed by Pines and collaborators. [6] In the NAFL model those
parts of the Fermi surface that are spanned by the spin fluctuation wave
vector **Q** will clearly have a much larger scattering rate, and in the
PG region probably a lower quasiparticle weight, than the parts which
are not spanned. [6, 8] More recently Hussey [11] added a new
ingredient, namely regions of the Fermi surface where the scattering is
very strong still give a significant contribution to the conductivity,
corresponding to the mean free path being equal to the lattice
parameter. This model then gives a good account of much magnetotransport
data for overdoped cuprates.

In this paper we report a systematic study of the magnetotransport
properties of optimally or slightly under doped
Y0.95Ca0.05Ba2(Cu1-_x_Zn_x_)3Oy (with x = 0, 0.02, 0.04) and overdoped
Y0.95Ca0.1Ba2Cu3Oy thin films. We have measured in-plane resistivity,
Hall voltage and angular dependent MR in the temperature range from just
above T_(c) up to 300 K. We find that the introduction of Zn strongly
suppresses the normal orbital MR Δρ_(orb)/ρ. However because T_(c) is
also suppressed we could still determine the characteristic T dependence
of Δρ_(orb)/ρ over a substantial temperature range. One intriguing new
result is that Δρ_(orb)/ρ can be fitted to _T_-4 behavior in a
temperature region where the Hall angle _th__H_ is varying much more
slowly than _T_-2 because of the strong scattering by Zn.

## II Experimental Details

The films were grown on SrTiO₃ (100) substrates using pulsed laser
deposition. Details of the method can be found in Refs. 12 and 13. Film
stoichiometry was determined by electron probe microanalysis (EPMA)
using single crystal YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − η), CaCO₃, and ZnO as standards.
Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to examine the surface quality of
the films and to determine their thickness, which is 300 +- 45 nm. The
films were patterned into the standard shape shown later in the inset to
Fig. 2(b), with two pairs of Hall and MR contacts per sample and silver
paint contacts being made to evaporated gold pads. The transport
measurements were made using standard low frequency ac methods with a
measuring current of 10 _m_A. MR was measured in two ways (i) by
sweeping the magnetic field from zero to 11 T and back, and (ii) by
rotating the sample from 0deg to 285deg and back in a fixed magnetic
field (usually 11 T) at constant temperature. In the former case the
temperature was controlled to better than 5 mK using a Cernox
thermometer mounted on the rotatable sample stage. For the latter, a
RhFe thermometer whose orientation was fixed, was used to stabilize the
temperature as the sample stage was rotated. The Cernox resistance
sensor was carefully calibrated in magnetic fields up to 11 T with
constant (or slowly drifting) temperatures provided by liquid nitrogen
held at various pressures using a manostat or by solid CO₂. Figure 1
shows a comparison of our data with published work [14] that gives the
average magnetoresistance of nine Cernox sensors. We found that over a
large temperature region the temperature correction D_T_/_T_ varies as
(_B_/_T_)2. The Cernox MR is a small but important effect, D_T_/_T_/_B_2
= 7.1 x 10-5

Hall measurements were made by rotating the sample by 180deg in a 6 T
magnetic field, with linearity checks being made at several temperatures
in fields up to 11 T. Because of the strong hole concentration
dependence of normal and superconducting properties, [7, 8] it is
important to determine p as accurately as possible. We have estimated p
from room-temperature thermopower, _S_(290 K), using the correlation of
Obertelli _et al._, [15] expressed numerically [16] as S(290 K) =
-139p + 24.2 _m_V/K, for p > 0.155, and _S_(290 K) = 992 exp(-38.1_p_)
_m_V/K, for 0.05 < p < 0.155. These values of p are given in Table 1
together with T_(c) values and transition widths (FWHM in _d_/_dT_). For
YBCO _S_(290 K) does not vary much with Zn content [17] so it is still a
good measure of p even in the presence of strong in-plane scattering by
Zn.

## III Results and Discussion

The resistivity data of the four thin films are shown in Fig. 2(a) and
their properties are summarized in Table 1. From previous work [18] the
lower values of p correspond to a pseudogap value of _T_’ = 200 +- 10 K.
Hence the downturn in resistivity near 200 K for the 5

  ------------ ------- --------- ------------ --------------- ------------
  Sample        T_(c)   D_T__c_    _S_(290)          p             e
  Ca, Zn         (K)      (K)      (_μ_V/K)     (holes/Cu)      (104 K4)
  0.05          84.8      0.8     5.6 ± 0.5    0.136 ± 0.002   17.9 ± 1.8
  0.05, 0.02    66.0      1.5     2.4 ± 0.5    0.157 ± 0.004   5.5 ± 0.5
  0.05, 0.04    33.9      1.1     5.4 ± 0.5    0.137 ± 0.002   1.4 ± 0.14
  0.1           79.5      0.7     −5.3 ± 0.5   0.212 ± 0.004   12.3 ± 1.2
  ------------ ------- --------- ------------ --------------- ------------

Table 1: Summary of results for all samples.

Figure 1: Comparison of the MR correction for our Cernox thermometer
with the average correction for nine thermometers from Ref. 14 (Brandt
_et al._). B perp. or _B_∣ means the applied field was perpendicular or
parallel to the axis of the cylindrical thermometer can. In all cases
the Cernox MR was negative and the data were fitted to B2 behavior. In
the temperature range of interest 77.8–286 K the slope of the B2 fit was
not changed significantly if some anomalous low-field points in the data
of Ref. 14 were omitted, except at 286 K where only points between 14
and 20 T were included in the B2 fit.

are consistent with an extrapolated residual resistivity, dρ_(res)/dx =
21 +- 2 μΩ cm/

Corresponding Hall coefficient (R_(H)) data are shown in Fig. 2(b). From
previous work[4, 7, 19] the magnitude of R_(H) is affected much more
strongly by changes in oxygen deficiency than by changes in Zn content.
The primary effect of Zn substitution is to suppress the temperature
dependence of R_(H). A more detailed study of Ca-free films[19] showed
that R_(H) is independent of Zn doping at high T. Our results for the 0
and 4

Figure 2: (a) In-plane resistivity versus temperature for
Y0.95Ca0.05Ba2(Cu1−2_m_n_n_)Oy (_x_ = 0,0.02,0.04) and Y0.9Ca01.Ba2Cu3O7
thin films. (b) In-plane Hall coefficient R, for these films. The inset
shows a diagram of the patterned films. (c) The corresponding cotangent
of the Hall angle, measured at 6 T.

the Zn-free samples is also independent of Ca content, i.e. p as also
found earlier.[22] There are in fact the same kind of deviations from an
A + BT² law found previously.[4, 19, 21, 22] Namely there is a weak
negative curvature for all samples and if the data are fitted to an
A + BT^(m) law over the whole range of T then for all the samples
m = 1.67 ± 0.03 rather than m=2.

Figures 3(a) and 3(b) show the magnetic field dependence of the in-plane
resistivity in transverse geometry (B∥c, J ⊥ c) for the 5

In conventional metals Δρ/ρ usually varies as (ωτ)², where ω is the
cyclotron frequency and τ is the relaxation time, and therefore Kohler’s
rule Δρ/ρ ∼ (B/ρ)² is obeyed. However, other measurements of YBCO (with
various dopings) strongly violate Kohler’s rule,[3] so it is not
surprising that this also happens for the present samples, indicating
that the **k** independent τ approximation never applies. The
longitudinal MR (J∥B, J ⊥ c) is also positive but is always much smaller
than the transverse MR. It falls below our measurement resolution above
approximately T_(c) + 20 K for 5

Although a Fermi liquid model may not apply to the cuprates,[23] for a
two-dimensional (2D) Fermi liquid the orbital MR arises from the
variance of the local Hall angle around the Fermi surface[3] and can be
written as

Δρ(B, T)/ρ(T) = ⟨θ(s)²⟩ − ⟨θ(s)⟩²,
(1)

where ⟨A⟩ = ξ̸A(s)Σ(s)ds/ξ̸Σ(s)ds, Σ(s) is the conductivity and ds is an
element of length along the Fermi surface. θ(s) is the local Hall angle
and is proportional to τ(s) the relaxation time in the elemental length
ds multiplied by a local curvature factor related to the effective mass.
In the earlier

Figure 4: Angular dependence of the MR for the
Y_(0.95)Ca_(0.05)Ba₂Cu₃O_(y) thin films, α is the angle between the
magnetic field and the ab plane. α=0 corresponds to B∥J∥ab and α =90 to
B∥c, J∥ab.

Figure 5: Log-log plots of the MR in a magnetic field of 11 T for all
films studied. Closed symbols orbital part from angular sweeps. Open
symbols, total transverse MR from field sweeps. Solid lines show T⁻⁴
behavior.

work³ on pure YBCO the observation that Δρ(B, T)/ρ(T) ∼ T⁻⁴ while
⟨θ(s)⟩² ∼ T⁻⁴ was used to rule out the Fermi liquid model with a **k**
dependent τ. Namely in the simplest version of such models the variance
in τ, ⟨(τ(s)s²)⟩ − ⟨(τ(s))²⟩²/⟨τ(s)⟩² has to be strongly T dependent in
order to account for the T dependence of R_(H) which is enhanced by a
factor $\overline{\tau(s)^{2}}/[\tau(s)]^{2}$, where in this formula
$\overline{\tau(s)}$ is the mean value of τ(s) without any conductivity
weighting factor Σ(s).²⁴ But this is difficult to reconcile with Eq.
(1), if Δρ/ρ and ⟨θ⟩², i.e., ⟨τ(s)⟩² have the same T dependences.
However the anisotropic τ(k) model proposed by Hussey¹¹ does give
agreement with the behavior of the Hall angle and MR within experimental
error. This is presumably because in this model the regions of the Fermi
surface (FS) where τ(s) ∼ T⁻² dominate both the Hall angle and MR. In
the other regions the mean free path is equal to the in-plane lattice
parameter and is therefore small and T independent. Furthermore the
argument of Ref. 3 will not hold if the effective mass varies with
temperature, for example from renormalization effects in a correlated
electron system, and probably even if it varies very strongly around the
Fermi surface. In the present work we find that the relation between the
MR and the Hall angle is not the same at higher and lower temperatures,
as discussed in more detail later.

Since the values of T_(c) of the various samples range between 85 and 34
K, superconducting fluctuations will affect the Δρ(B, T)/ρ(T) curves
quite differently. The data in Fig. 5 suggest that superconducting
fluctuations only become important below T_(c) + 30 K, where there are
strong upward deviations from the T⁻⁴ lines. The data suggest that the
onset of fluctuations is relatively rapid below this temperature. In
combination with appropriate theory these data could be used to shed
light on another topic of current interest, namely the mechanism by
which the fluctuation contributions to various physical properties is
cut off above T_(c). For Bi:2212 crystals the MR has been ascribed to
superconducting

Figure 6: The ratio of the MR to the square of the Hall angle for all
films studied.

Figure 7: Direct comparison of MR and Hall angle data, both at 6 T for
the four films studied in the form of (R/ΔR)^(1/2) and cot θ_(H) vs T²
plots. The solid lines are fits to a power law cot θ_(H)=A +BT^(m), with
m=1.65. The same fits have been multiplied by factors of 0.5 to 0.8 for
comparison with the corresponding MR data. The inserts show the low T
region where the limiting T⁻⁴ behavior and the onset of fluctuations are
visible.

fluctuations [25] over the whole temperature range (up to 300 K). The
present work suggests that the possibility of a T⁻⁴ term in the MR of
Bi:2212 should also be considered, as an alternative to fluctuations,
although they are larger in lower-dimensional systems and Bi:2212 is
admittedly much more anisotropic than the YBCO samples studied here.

The ratios of the normal orbital MR to the square of the Hall angle,
i.e., [Δρ(B, T)/ρ(T)]/θ_(H)² in a field of 11 T are shown for all four
samples in Figs. 6(a) and 6(b). It can be seen that in the Zn-free
samples the ratios are 2+-0.2 at 120 K, and decrease weakly with
increasing temperature, i.e., they are consistent with the law
[Δρ(B, T)/ρ(T)] ∼ θ_(H)². On the other hand, for the Zn-doped samples
the ratios are larger and more T dependent, increasing to values as high
as 20 at 60 K (x=0.04). Thus, the observed normal orbital MR for these
samples is only comparable to ⟨θ(s)⟩² (within a factor two) at higher
temperatures, above approximately 130 K. In LSCO the ratio
[Δρ(B, T)/ρ(T)]/θ_(H)² is also much larger [26, 25] and only T
independent for certain values of p. [26] Similar results were found for
c axis oriented epitaxial Bi-2212 films. [27]

Although the plots in Fig. 6 do show large differences between the MR
and inverse Hall angle at low T, they are slightly misleading in that
the main difference occurs in the residual term A rather than the BT²
term. In our opinion the combined plots of (R/ΔR)^(1/2) and cot θ_(H) vs
T² shown in Fig. 7 are more revealing. At higher values of T both
quantities have similar slopes, the main difference, especially for the
Zn doped samples, is that the low T intercept A is larger for cot θ_(H)
than for (R/ΔR)^(1/2). Furthermore, below ∼100 K the intercept of
(R/ΔR)^(1/2) disappears quite abruptly and as shown in the insets, the
data can be fitted to T⁻⁴ laws, which is consistent with the conclusions
drawn from the log-log plots in Fig. 5. The insets to Fig. 7 also show
how superconducting fluctuations become significant below T_(c)+20 to
T_(c) +-30 K as well as the expected divergence in ΔR/R as T→T_(c),
i.e., (R/ΔR)^(1/2) extrapolates to zero near T_(c). Therefore, from the
plots shown in Fig. 7 we can see that the two-lifetime pictures work
reasonably well at higher T although, even there, Zn substitution does
have a significantly larger effect on the residual scattering term in
cot Θ_(H) than that in (R/ΔR)^(1/2). At lower temperatures this effect
becomes even more extreme in that the MR can be fitted to a T⁻⁴ law with
no significant residual scattering term, while the residual term in cot
Θ_(H) remains finite, although probably smaller than that at higher T.
Within the **k** dependent τ model of Hussey [11] one possibility is
that these unusual effects arise because of anisotropic **k** dependent
scattering by Zn atoms. [28] This is currently being investigated
numerically. Anisotropic scattering by zinc atoms might be a possible
way of accounting for the discrepancies between our data and the
non-Fermi liquid two-lifetime models at low T.

## IV Summary and conclusions

In summary, we report measurements of the in-plane resistivity,
magnetoresistivity, and Hall resistivity of under and nearly optimally
doped Y_(0.95)Ca_(0.05)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(y) (x =0,0.02,0.04) and
overdoped Y_(0.9)Ca_(0.1)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ films. The orbital MR is strongly
suppressed with increasing Zn concentration, but the lower T_(c) values
have allowed us to follow its T dependence over a substantial
temperature range. There are deviations from the two-lifetime models in
that at low T the extra scattering introduced by zinc doping has a
stronger effect on co Θ_(H) than it does on the orbital MR which can
still be fitted to a T⁻⁴ law.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful to John Loram for useful discussions, to John Durrell
for help in patterning the films, to Chris Hayward for electron
microprobe analysis, and to Ahmed Kurstumovic for atomic force
microscopy. This work was supported by EPSRC (UK), Grant No.
EP/C511778/1 and the Croatian Research Council.

## References

* [1] J. W. Loram, K. A. Mirza, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, J. Phys.
Chem. Solids **59**, 2091 (1998). * [2] P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**, 2092 (1991). * [3] J. M. Harris, Y. F. Yan, P. Matl, N. P. Ong,
P. W. Anderson, T. Kimura, and K. Kitazawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**,
1391 (1995). * [4] T. R. Chien, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **67**, 2088 (1991). * [5] P. Coleman, A. J. Schofield, and A. M.
Tsvelik, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 1324 (1996). * [6] B. P. Stojkovic and
D. Pines, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 811 (1996). * [7] A. Carrington, A.
P. Mackenzie, C. T. Lin, and J. R. Cooper, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2855
(1992). * [8] J. R. Cooper and J. W. Loram, J. Phys. I **6**, 2237
(1996). * [9] R. Hlubina and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 9253
(1995). * [10] L. B. Ioffe and A. J. Millis, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 11631
(1998). * [11] N. E. Hussey, Eur. Phys. J. B **31**, 495 (2003). * [12]
S. H. Naqib, Ph.D. thesis, University of Cambridge, 2003. * [13] S. H.
Naqib, J. R. Cooper, J. L. Tallon, R. S. Islam, and R. A. Chakalov,
Phys. Rev. B **71**, 054502 (2005). * [14] B. L. Brandt, D. W. Liu, and
L. G. Rubin, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **70**, 104 (1999). * [15] S. D.
Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, R14928
(1992). * [16] J. L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, H. Shaked, R. L. Hitterman,
and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **51**, R12911 (1995). * [17] J. L.
Tallon, J. R. Cooper, P. S. I. P. N. deSilva, G. V. M. Williams, and J.
W. Loram, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**, 4114 (1995). * [18] S. H. Naqib, J.
R. Cooper, J. L. Tallon, and C. Panagopoulos, Physica C **387**, 365
(2003).

* [19] D. J. C. Walker, A. P. Mackenzie, and J. R. Cooper, Physica C
**235-240**, 1335 (1994). * [20] D. J. C. Walker, A. P. Mackenzie, and
J. R. Cooper, Phys. Rev. B **51**, R15653 (1995). * [21] A. Carrington,
D. J. C. Walker, A. P. Mackenzie, and J. R. Cooper, Phys. Rev. B **48**,
13051 (1993). * [22] I. R. Fisher, Ph.D. thesis, University of
Cambridge, 1996. * [23] Y. Ando and K. Segawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**,
167005 (2002). * [24]_The Hall Effect in Metals and Alloys_, edited by
C. M. Hurd (Plenum Press, New York-London, 1972), p. 75. * [25] Yu. I.
Latyshev, O. Laborde, and P. Monceau, Physica C **235-240**, 1525
(1994). * [26] F. F. Balakirev, I. E. Trofimov, S. Guha, M. Z. Cieplak,
and P. Lindenfeld, Phys. Rev. B **57**, R8083 (1998). * [27] Z.
Konstantinovic, O. Laborde, P. Monceau, Z. Z. Li, and H. Raffy, Physica
B **259-261**, 569 (1999). * [28] N. E. Hussey (private communication).
