# Thermodynamic properties and pressure effect on the superconductivity
in CaAlSi and SrAlSi

B. Lorenz, J. Cmaidalka, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu

Department of Physics and TCSAM, University of Houston, Houston, Texas
77204-5932, USA Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron Road,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA Hong Kong University of Science and
Technology, Hong Kong, China

Received 3 February 2003; revised manuscript received 11 April 2003;
published 30 July 2003

###### Abstract

Superconductivity in the C32 compounds CaAlSi and SrAlSi is investigated
by heat capacity measurements as well as high-pressure ac-susceptibility
experiments. The heat capacity in the superconducting state is well
explained by the BCS theory for weak (SrAlSi) and enhanced coupling
strength (CaAlSi). The magnitudes of the superconducting gaps are
estimated as 2.7 meV (CaAlSi) and 1.4 meV (SrAlSi). The pressure effect
on the superconducting transition temperature, dln T_(c)/dp, is positive
in CaAlSi (+ 0.026 GPa⁻¹) but negative in SrAlSi (−0.024 GPa⁻¹). The
opposite sign of the pressure coefficients of T_(c) indicates distinct
differences in the electronic structure and the density of states at the
Fermi energy of the two compounds in agreement with recent band
structure calculations.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.68.014512

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of superconductivity at 39 K in MgB₂, the attention
has turned to other intermetallic compounds with similar structure or
lattice symmetry. Besides MgB₂ only a few binary compounds between the
IIA and IIIB elements crystallize in the hexagonal C32 structure, i.e.,
CaGa₂, SrGa₂, and BaGa₂. These gallium-based binary compounds are not
superconducting.[1] However, a new class of pseudoternary compounds with
C32 structure, AX_(2 − x)Si_(x) with A = Ca,Sr,Ba and X = Ga,Al, was
recently synthesized and characterized.[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6] The
pseudoternary compounds are derived from the binary ones by partially
substituting X (e.g., Ga) by silicon, which results in a change of the
lattice parameters[1, 4] and, presumably, of the electronic structure.
The compounds are isostructural to MgB₂ where the A ions occupy the Mg
sites and the _X_/Si ions are randomly distributed among the boron sites
in the honeycomb planes of the C32 structure. The search for
superconductivity was successful for most of the materials mentioned
above; however, stoichiometric BaAlSi is not superconducting above 2 K
(the measuring limit of previous investigations). Magnetization
measurements show the characteristic features of type II
superconductors.[2] The C32 structure is stable within a wide range of
Al:Si and Ga:Si ratios and superconductivity was observed in a range
from 0.6 to 2.3 (Al:Si) and 0.3 to 1.9 (Ga:Si), respectively.[1, 4] The
maximum T_(c)’s were found near the stoichiometric 1:1:1 composition
(_x_ = 1) in CaAl_(2 − x)Si_(x), SrGa_(2 − x)Si_(x), and
BaGa_(2 − x)Si_(x) but at x = 0.85 in CaGa_(2 − x)Si_(x).

Because of the structural similarity to the famous sister compound,
MgB₂, the question has been raised whether the properties and mechanisms
leading to superconductivity in the pseudoternary compounds are of the
same origin as those in magnesium diboride and why their T_(c) is so
much lower (the highest T_(c) = 7.9 K was found in CaAlSi). We have
shown, based on thermoelectric power measurements, that the majority of
charge carriers in the pseudoternary compounds are electron-like in
contrast to the σ-hole carriers in MgB₂.[1, 4] This conclusion is
supported by recent band structure calculations showing that the
electron-like d states of the alkaline-earth metals contribute up to 60

It is interesting to note that there is no obvious correlation of T_(c)
with the mass of the alkaline-earth-metal ion in the compound _A_-GaSi.
However, in A -AlSi T_(c) decreases systematically with increasing mass
of the A ion from 7.9 K (_A_ = Ca) to 5 K (_A_ = Sr) and BaAlSi is not
superconducting above 2 K.[4, 6] Imai _et al._[6] attributed the trend
of T_(c) in the A -AlSi system to a decrease of the density of states,
_N_(E_(F)), due to the increasing mass of the A ion assuming thereby
that the Debye temperature (the prefactor in the BCS formula for T_(c))
does not change if Ca is replaced by Sr and Ba. This assumption,
however, is not justified because, unlike in MgB₂, the electron-phonon
interaction leading to the formation of Cooper pairs and
superconductivity is expected to involve the vibrations of the
alkaline-earth-metal ions and their mass should affect the
superconducting T_(c). The latter argument is supported by the results
of recent band structure calculations for A -AlSi indicating that
_N_(E_(F)) actually increases if Ca is replaced by Sr or Ba.[7]
Furthermore, the alkaline-earth-metal d states contribute to the Fermi
surface to a large extent and there is no reason to assume that they do
not participate in the electron-phonon coupling. Additional
investigations are needed to reveal the physical nature of the
superconducting state.

We, therefore, have conducted measurements of the specific heat as well
as the effect of hydrostatic pressure on the superconducting transitions
of CaAlSi and SrAlSi. The heat capacity data are useful to (i) measure
the thermodynamic properties and confirm the bulk nature of
superconductivity, (ii) compare the specific heat in the normal and
superconducting states with the standard BCS theory,[8, 9] and (iii)
extract microscopic parameters, e.g., the superconducting gap. The
application of pressure is of interest because an extraordinary large
superconducting T_(c) of 14 K was reported for a high pressure phase of
the binary silicide CaSi₂.[10]

The heat capacity data clearly show the existence of bulk
superconductivity in CaAlSi and SrAlSi, consistent with previous
magnetic measurements.[1, 2] The temperature dependence of the specific
heat of SrAlSi fits well the BCS theory in the weak-coupling limit.
Deviations from the BCS model in the case of CaAlSi indicate a slightly
stronger coupling. With the application of hydrostatic pressure T_(c)
increases in CaAlSi but it decreases in SrAlSi. The opposite signs of
the pressure coefficients of T_(c) are explained in terms of the
distinct difference between the electronic structures of both compounds.

## II Experiment

The pseudoternary intermetallic compounds, CaAlSi and SrAlSi, have been
synthesized by argon arc melting with appropriate amounts of Ca (99

The heat capacity was measured for both samples (typical mass of 25 mg)
between room temperature and 2.2 K employing the Physical Property
Measurement System (Quantum Design). The relative error of the
measurement (i.e., the statistical error of the fitting procedure) was
of the order of 0.1 to 0.2

The pressure effect on the superconducting transitions of CaAlSi and
SrAlSi was investigated by ac-susceptibility measurements at pressures
up to 2 GPa. A dual coil system was mounted directly to the sample. The
ac susceptibility was measured using the mutual inductance bridge
(LR700, Linear Research). Pressure was generated in a beryllium-copper
piston-cylinder clamp.[12] The sample was mounted in a Teflon container
filled with a 1:1 mixture of Fluorinert FC70 and FC77 as a hydrostatic
pressure transmitting medium. The pressure was measured in situ at 7 K
by monitoring the shift of the superconducting T_(c) of a high-purity
(99.9999

## III Results and Discussion

### Heat capacity measurements

Figures 1(a) and (b) show the low temperature heat capacity data,
C_(p)/T vs T, for CaAlSi and SrAlSi, respectively. At zero magnetic
field (open circles) C_(p) shows a sharp peak at the superconducting
transition as expected for bulk superconductors with a narrow transition
width of 0.4 K (CaAlSi) and 0.2 K (SrAlSi). To compare with the normal
state heat capacity, the superconductivity was suppressed by a 7 T
magnetic field. The corresponding data are shown by open squares in
Fig. 1. The high field data can be used to estimate the superconducting
component of C_(p) by subtracting the lattice contribution from the zero
field C_(p) below T_(c). In general C_(p) is given by the sum of the
electronic (C_(e)) and the lattice (C_(l)) contributions

C_(p)(T) = C_(e)(T) + C_(l)(T),

with C_(e)(T) = C_(e)^((n))(T) = γT in the normal state and
C_(e)(T) = C_(e)^((s))(T) in the superconducting state. The values of
C_(e)^((s))(T) in the BCS theory for weak coupling were numerically
calculated and tabulated by Muhlschlegel.[8] The characteristic
coefficient γ of C_(e)^((n)) is proportional to the density of

Figure 1: Low temperature heat capacity of (a) CaAlSi and (b) SrAlSi.
The open circles show C_(p) measured in zero magnetic field. The normal
state C_(p) (open squares) was measured by suppressing superconductivity
in a magnetic field of 7 T. The insets show the plot of the electronic
specific heat in the superconducting state, C_(e)^((s))/C_(p)^((n)) vs
T/T_(c), with the BCS function (dotted line).

states (DOS) at the Fermi energy, N(E_(F)). The lattice heat capacity at
low temperatures can be expanded in a power series of T (Debye model)
starting with the third order term, T³. Normal state electronic and
lattice contributions are commonly separated in the C_(p)/T vs T² plot
where the coefficient γ is obtained as the linear extrapolation of
C_(p)/T to zero temperature and the slope at low temperatures is used to
calculate the Debye temperature, Θ_(D). Using the high field data of
C_(p) we estimate γ= 5.04 mJ/mol K, Θ_(D)= 226 K, and γ= 5.48 mJ/mol K,
Θ_(D)= 218 K for CaAlSi and SrAlSi, respectively. It is interesting to
note that γ of SrAlSi is indeed larger than the value for CaAlSi
indicating that N(E_(F)) increases with the substitution of Ca by Sr in
qualitative agreement with the band structure calculations.[7] However,
the increase is moderate and far smaller than the factor of two
predicted by the theory.

The electronic heat capacity in the superconducting state,
C_(e)^((s))(T), is compared with the BCS data (dotted line) in the
insets of Fig. 1. The thermodynamic T_(c) was estimated by an entropy
conserving construction as T_(c)= 7.7 K (CaAlSi) and T_(c)= 4.9 K
(SrAlSi). These values are slightly lower than the values determined
from resistivity measurements or from the onset of the diamagnetic drop
of the magnetic susceptibility. However, this is to be expected since
the thermodynamic T_(c) represents an averaged bulk value whereas
resistivity as well as the onset of diamagnetism are both sensitive to
the first percolating path of superconducting volume in the sample. The
normalized electronic heat capacity, C_(e)^((s))(T)/C_(e)^((n))(T), is
displayed as a function of T/T_(c). There is an excellent agreement with
the BCS data in the case of SrAlSi [Fig. 1(b)], i.e., the BCS model in
the weak-coupling limit describes the superconducting state very well in
the temperature range accessible in our experiments (T>2.2 K). There are
deviations of C_(e)^((s))(T) from the BCS data in the case of CaAlSi.
The heat capatrly falls below the BCS values at low T but is enhanced
close to T_(c) resulting in a larger relative jump of C_(p),
δC_(p)(T_(c))/γT_(c)≈ (BCS value = 1.43). These deviations may be
explained by a stronger electron phonon coupling in CaAlSi as compared
to SrAlSi. The thermodynamic consistency of the heat capacity data was
checked by integrating the entropy difference,
[ C_(e)^((s))(T) − C_(e)^((n))(T) ]/T, from T= 0 to T= T_(c). For CaAlSi
this integral is close to zero as expected. For SrAlSi the integration
cannot be carried out with sufficient accuracy because of the
experimental restrictions (the lowest accessible temperature, 2.2 K, is
just little less than 50

The temperature dependence of the heat capacity in the superconducting
state provides strong evidence that the superconductivity found in
SrAlSi and CaAlSi is well explained by the standard BCS theory for weak
and enhanced coupling, respectively. Furthermore, the data confirm the
bulk nature of the superconductivity in these pseudoternary C32
compounds.

It appears interesting to compare the present results with the
superconductivity found at relatively high temperatures in binary
compounds with similar structure. Superconductivity at 14 K was recently
detected in CaSi₂ at pressures above 14 GPa.[10] The (tetragonal)
structure of this high-pressure phase is very similar to the AlB₂
structure but the honeycomb planes of the Si ions show still a
nonvanishing buckling even at the highest pressures.[13] No
thermodynamic data such as heat capacity are known for this
superconducting high-pressure phase. In contrast, extensive research has
been conducted to investigate the thermodynamic properties in the
superconducting state of MgB₂. The heat capacity of MgB₂ shows an
abnormal temperature dependence below T_(c).[14] Whereas the value of
C_(e)^((s))(T) at and right below T_(c) is smaller than the
corresponding BCS function, it raises above the BCS data below about 20
K followed by an exponential drop at lower temperature. From this
unusual behavior the existence of two superconducting gaps in MgB₂ was
suggested and later confirmed by many alternative experiments. The
present data for CaAlSi and SrAlSi show no evidence for a similar
scenario within the experimental temperature range of T>2.2 K, i.e.,
T>0.44T_(c) for SrAlSi and T>0.27T_(c) for CaAlSi. The existence of an
anomaly at far lower temperature, similar to MgB₂, cannot be completely
excluded from the current investigation. However, the almost perfect
agreement of C_(e)^((s))(T) with the BCS data in the case

                          CaAlSi   SrAlSi   BCS theory
  ---------------------- -------- -------- ------------
  γ (mJ/mol K²)            5.04     5.42   
  θ_(D) (K)                226      218    
  T_(c) (K)                7.7      4.9    
  2Δ (meV)                 2.7      1.49   
  δC_(p)(T_(c))/γT_(c)     2.0      1.4        1.43
  2Δ/k_(B)T_(c)            4.07    ∼ 3.5       3.53

Table 1: The characteristic normal and superconducting state parameters
of CaAlSi and SrAlSi as compared to the weak coupling BCS theory.

of SrAlSi as well as the enhancement of C_(e)^((s))(T) close to T_(c) of
CaAlSi (instead of the depletion observed in MgB₂) suggest a less
complex structure of the superconducting gap as compared to magnesium
diboride.

### Pressure effect on the superconducting transitions in CaAlSi and
SrAlSi

The effect of hydrostatic pressure on the superconducting T_(c) is of
special interest since it can help to reveal the intrinsic mechanisms of
superconductivity. In MgB₂, for example, it could be shown that the
negative pressure coefficient of T_(c) was most compatible with the
strong-coupling model (McMillen) of phonon-mediated superconductivity so
that alternative explanations appeared to be less favorable.[15]

The pressure effect on T_(c) of CaAlSi and SrAlSi was investigated by
measuring the real part of the ac susceptibility, χ_(ac)^(′). The data
in Fig. 2 show the shift of the diamagnetic signal of χ_(ac)^(′) with
increasing pressure. Surprisingly, the pressure effect on CaAlSi and
SrAlSi is opposite in sign. The superconducting transition temperature
(measured at the onset of the diamagnetic signal) of CaAlSi increases
with pressure, whereas T_(c) of SrAlSi clearly decreases. The T_(c)’s as
a function of pressure for both compounds are shown in Fig. 3. The
increase of T_(c) in CaAlSi [Fig. 3(a)] is slightly nonlinear with an
initial slope of 0.21 K/GPa. In contrast, Fig. 3(b) shows an almost
perfect linear decrease of T_(c) for SrAlSi with a coefficient of − 0.12
K/GPa. Although the magnitude of the relative pressure coefficient, d
ln(T_(c))/dp, is almost the same for both compounds, the opposite sign
deserves further consideration.

For a qualitative discussion we use the BCS equation for T_(c) (Ref. 9)

k_(B)T_(c) = 1.13  ℏω_(D)exp (−1/λ),

Figure 3: Pressure dependence of T_(c) of (a) CaAlSi and (b) SrAlSi. The
filled squares and open circles are data taken at increasing and
decreasing pressure, respectively.

Figure 2: ac susceptibility of (a) CaAlSi and (b) SrAlSi measured at
different pressures. The data are normalized to the susceptibility value
right above T_(c). The superconducting transition temperature was
estimated from the onset of the diamagnetic signal.

where ℏω_(D) is a measure of the characteristic energy scale for the
phonons and λ = V₀N(E_(F)). V₀ is the matrix element of the effective
interaction. Assuming that the pressure dependence of V₀ is negligible,
the pressure coefficient of T_(c) is derived as

$$\frac{d\ln T_{c}}{dp}=\frac{d\ln\omega_{D}}{dp}+\frac{1}{V_{0}N(E_{F})}\,\frac{d \ln V_{0}N(E_{F})}{dp}\,.$$
(3)

There are obviously two contributions to the pressure coefficient of
T_(c) : one from the sole phonon system, dln ω_(D)/dp, and the second
one involving the electronic system, dln N(E_(F))/dp. In the
weak-coupling limit of the BCS model both terms contribute to the total
pressure coefficient. The effect of pressure on the phonon system
usually results in an increase of the average phonon energy, i.e., in a
"hardening" of phonon modes. Only in rare cases, close to a structural
transition, phonon "softening" may occur but usually only for some
particular modes. Therefore, the first term in Eq. (3) yields a positive
contribution to the total pressure coefficient. The pressure effect on
the density of states, however, is more complex. The compression of the
lattice by pressure in general causes an increase of the bandwidth,
which in turn will result in an average decrease of N(E) since the total
number of states in a band is fixed. In addition, V₀ tends to decrease
with pressure since it is inversely proportional to the average square
of the phonon frequency. This negative contribution to dln T_(c)/dp will
compete with the phonon hardening effect. However, the application of
pressure may also cause slight changes in the band structure and/or a
shift of the Fermi energy, E_(F), and a change of N(E_(F)). Therefore,
within the BCS theory the pressure coefficient of T_(c) can be of either
sign, depending on which of the contributions to Eq. (3), positive or
negative, dominate.

In both compounds, CaAlSi and SrAlSi, the phonon contribution to the
pressure coefficient is expected to be positive. The magnitude of
dln ω_(D)/dp is not known so far but it can be estimated from Raman or
infrared spectroscopy at high pressures. The electronic term in Eq. (3)
needs a careful consideration. Recent band structure calculations have
shown striking differences in N(E) in CaAlSi and SrAlSi. [7] In CaAlSi
the Fermi energy lies in a region where N(E) is flat and relatively
insensitive to small variations of E_(F). This results in a small
electronic contribution to the total pressure coefficient of T_(c) . In
CaAlSi the positive phonon term obviously outweighs the electronic term,
which results in the observed positive dT_(c)/dp , as shown in Fig.
3(a). The situation is different, however, in SrAlSi. According to the
calculations [7] the density of states forms a very narrow peak close to
the Fermi energy. This makes N(E_(F)) extremely susceptible to external
perturbations. Any small change induced by pressure (band broadening,
shift of E_(F)) may result in a stronger decrease of N(E_(F)). The
negative electronic contribution to the pressure coefficient of T_(c) ,
therefore, can dominate over the lattice term and the total dT_(c)/dp
becomes negative as observed in our experiments [Fig. 3(b)].

Although the above discussion is qualitative in nature it indicates that
the opposite pressure coefficients of T_(c) in CaAlSi and SrAlSi
uniquely reflect the peculiarities of their electronic structure. They
provide an indirect proof of the distinct differences in the density of
states at E_(F) in both compounds, CaAlSi and SrAlSi, as suggested by
band structure calculations. Furthermore, the positive pressure
coefficient observed in CaAlSi cannot be explained by a sole change of
the density of states induced by pressure but the contribution due to
phonon hardening has to be taken into account. For a more quantitative
comparison additional experimental as well as theoretical work is
needed. The measurement of phonon frequencies as a function of pressure
should provide a better estimate of the phonon effect on dln T_(c)/dp.
Improved band structure calculations involving the effects of lattice
compression and including the phonon system (see, for example, Ref. 16)
may help to get a more adequate understanding of the superconductivity
in the pseudobinary C32 intermetallic compounds.

## IV Summary and conclusions

We have investigated the superconductivity in the C32 intermetallic
compounds CaAlSi and SrAlSi by heat capacity and high-pressure ac
susceptibility measurements. Several parameters characterizing the
normal and superconducting states are extracted from the heat capacity.
The coefficients of the normal state electronic specific heat are
estimated as γ = 5.04 mJ/mol K² and γ = 5.42 mJ/mol K² for CaAlSi and
SrAlSi, respectively. The values of the superconducting gap are
calculated from the electronic heat capacity in the superconducting
state as 2.7 meV (CaAlSi) and 1.4 meV (SrAlSi). The parameters are
consistent with the predictions of the BCS theory in the weak-coupling
limit for SrAlSi and for enhanced coupling in the case of CaAlSi. The
bulk nature of superconductivity in CaAlSi and SrAlSi is confirmed.

The effect of hydrostatic pressure on T_(c) is positive in the case of
CaAlSi (dln T_(c)/dp = 0.026 GPa⁻¹) but negative for SrAlSi
(dln T_(c)/dp = −0.024 GPa⁻¹). This opposite tendency of the pressure
shift of T_(c) reflects the distinct differences in the density of
states near the Fermi energy in both compounds. The high-pressure data
also underline the importance of the phonon frequency (or ionic mass)
for understanding the superconductivity in the system A−AlSi and, in
particular, the positive pressure effect observed in CaAlSi. With the
increasing mass of the alkaline-earth ion T_(c) is systematically
suppressed, from 7.7 K (Ca) to 4.9 K (Sr) and to nonsuperconducting
above 2 K (Ba). This tendency cannot be explained as a sole
density-of-states effect since our data show that N(E_(F)) increases
when Ca is replaced by Sr, in qualitative agreement with the band
structure calculations.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported in part by NSF Grant No. DMR-9804325, the T.L.L.
Temple Foundation, the John J. and Rebecca Moores Endowment, and the
State of Texas through the TCSAM at the University of Houston and at
Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory by the Director, Office of Energy Research,
Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences of the
U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC03-76SF00098.

* [1] R. L. Meng, B. Lorenz, Y. S. Wang, J. Cmaidalka, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Y.
Xue, J. K. Meen, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **382**, 113 (2002); R. L.
Meng, B. Lorenz, J. Cmaidalka, Y. S. Wang, Y. Y. Sun, J. Lenzi, J. K.
Meen, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Physica C (to be published). * [2] M.
Imai, E. Abe, J. Ye, K. Nishida, T. Kimura, K. Honma, H. Abe, and H.
Kitazawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 077003 (2001). * [3] M. Imai, K.
Noshida, T. Kimura, and H. Abe, Appl. Phys. Lett. **80**, 1019 (2002). *
[4] B. Lorenz, J. Lenzi, J. Cmaidalka, R. L. Meng, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Y. Xue,
and C. W. Chu, Physica C **383**, 191 (2002). * [5] M. Imai, K. Nishida,
T. Kimura, and H. Abe, Physica C **377**, 96 (2002). * [6] M. Imai, K.
Nishida, T. Kimura, H. Kitazawa, H. Abe, H. Kito, and K. Yoshii, Physica
C **382**, 361 (2002). * [7] I. R. Shein, N. I. Medvedeva, and A. L.
Ivanovskii, cond-mat/0212047 (unpublished). * [8] B. Muhlschlegel, Z.
Phys. **155**, 313 (1959). * [9] C. P. Poole, Jr., H. A. Farach, and R.
J. Creswick, _Superconductivity_ (Academic Press, New York, 1996). *
[10] S. Sanfilippo, H. Elsinger, M. Nunez-Regueiro, O. Laborde, S.
LeFloch, M. Affronte, G. L. Olcese, and A. Palenzona, Phys. Rev. B
**61**, R3800 (2000). * [11] M. Horowitz, A. A. Silvidi, S. F. Malaker,
and J. G. Daunt, Phys. Rev. **88**, 1182 (1952); B. J. C. van der
Hoeven, Jr. and P. H. Keesom, Phys. Rev. **137**, A103 (1965). * [12] C.
W. Chu and L. R. Testardi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **32**, 766 (1974). * [13]
P. Bordet, M. Affronte, S. Sanfilippo, M. Nunez-Regueiro, O. Laborde, G.
L. Olcese, A. Palenzona, S. LeFloch, D. Levy, and M. Hanfland, Phys.
Rev. B **62**, 11 392 (2000). * [14] F. Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N. E.
Phillips, D. G. Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**,
047001 (2001). * [15] B. Lorenz, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B
**64**, 012507 (2001). * [16] I. Loa and K. Syassen. Solid State Commun.
**118**, 575 (2001).
