# Superconductivity in the actinoid-bearing filled skutterudite
ThPt₄Ge₁₂

D. Kaczorowski and V. H. Tran

Institute of Low Temperature and Structure Research, Polish Academy of
Sciences, P.O. Box 1410, 50-950 Wroclaw, Poland

Received 27 March 2008; revised manuscript received 18 April 2008;
published 12 May 2008

###### Abstract

ThPt₄Ge₁₂ is an actinoid-bearing representative of a recently discovered
family of Ge-based skutterudites. Based on magnetization, electrical
resistivity, and specific heat data, the compound was characterized as a
clean-limit strong-coupling superconductor with T_(c)=4.62 K. Moreover,
some hints are given at a possible non-BCS character of the
superconducting state.

pacs: 74.70.Dd, 74.25.Bt, 82.75.−z + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **??**, 180504(R) (2008)

+ Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **??**, 180504(R) (2008)

+ Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **??**, 180504(R) (2008)

+ Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **??**, 180504(R) (2008)

+ Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **??**, 180504(R) (2008)

## I Introduction

Ternary and higher order compounds crystallizing in a cubic structure of
the LaFe₄P₁₂ type [1] are commonly referred to as "skutterudites." Until
very recently, it was believed that all ternary skutterudites are based
on pnicogen atoms (_X_ = P, As, Sb), which together with a transition
metal T from the Fe or Co group of the Periodic Table form cagelike
frameworks of tilted [TX₆] octahedra. Icosahedral voids in these
frameworks are filled or partly filled by an electropositive main group
or subgroup element M, which is more or less loosely bound to the host
structure. Depending on a particular combination of the constituents
that yields the total valence electron count, determines the rigidness
of the cage via the _T-X_ and _X-X_ bondings, and controls the
interaction between the guest atom M and the [T_(c)_X₁₂] matrix, a great
variety of physical properties has been observed ranging from itinerant-
or local-moment magnetic ordering, multipolar ordering,
half-metallicity, spin and valence fluctuations, heavy fermion behavior,
and non-Fermi liquid states to conventional and unconventional
superconductivities. [2] Moreover, for some of the M_(c)_T_(d)_X₁₂
materials, very large thermal _M_-atom displacement factors have been
found. They correspond to the so-called phonon rattling modes, which
give rise to significantly enhanced thermoelectric performance. [3]

Most recently, two research groups have independently communicated
discovery of a novel class of ternary compounds with the filled
skutterudite structure, in which pnico-gen atoms are entirely replaced
by the Ge atoms and the T atom is Pt. [4, 5] The reported MPt₄Ge₁₂
series comprises phases with M = Sr, Ba, La, Ce, Pr, Nd, and Eu.
Interestingly, compounds with Sr and Ba have been found to be
superconducting below 5.10 and 5.35 K, respectively, [4] whereas those
with La and Pr have been characterized as strong-coupling
superconductors with T_(c)=8.3 and 7.9 K, respectively. [5] The
superconductivity in PrPt₄Ge₁₂ seemed most spectacular as the compound
is a Curie-Weiss parameter due to the presence of well localized 4f
magnetic moments. It has been shown, however, that at low temperatures,
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ is effectively nonmagnetic because of a specific crystal field
splitting with a singlet ground state and a nonmagnetic doublet being
the first excited level. [5]

In this Rapid Communication, we report on the formation and the
superconducting properties of another Ge-based skutterudite, namely,
ThPt₄Ge₁₂, which is the actinoid-bearing representative of the MPt₄Ge₁₂
series. A polycrystalline sample of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ was prepared by arc
melting stoichiometric amounts of elemental constituents (Th: 99.8 at.

Magnetic measurements were carried out in the temperature range from
1.71 to 10 K, in applied magnetic fields of up to 0.3 T, using a Quantum
Design superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer.
Specific heat and electrical resistivity were measured by the relaxation
method and the ac technique, respectively, over the temperature interval
of 350 mK$\--$300 K, and in applied fields of up to 0.6 T, employing a
Quantum Design physical property measurement system platform.

Figure 1(a) displays the temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity of ThPt₄Ge₁₂. At first glance, it seemed of metallic type
with the room temperature value $\rho_{\rm 100\,K}$ =7.5×10⁻⁷Ω m and
very low residual resistivity $\rho_{\rm 0}$= 6.5 × 10⁻⁹Ω m (just above
T_(c)), i.e., with the residual resistivity ratio being enormously large
(RRR ≈ 100), as for a polycrystalline sample. However, closer inspection
of the ρ(T) curve revealed that it does not follow the Bloch-Gruneissen
law characteristic of simple metals. Instead, in the entire temperature
range studied, except for the region below T_(c), it may be very well
approximated by the Woodard-Cody (WC) formula, [7] which is appropriate
for superconducting materials with significantly strong electron-phonon
coupling. Least-squares fit of the experimental data to the WC
expression (cf. Fig. 1) yielded the characteristic temperature
$T_{\rm 0}$=142 K that is close to those previously obtained for
SrPt₄Ge₁₂ and BaPt₄Ge₁₂. [4] Below approximately 10 K, the normal-state
resistivity exhibits a T⁵ dependence expected for electron-phonon
interactions in clean metallic systems.

Shown in Fig. 1(b) is the low-temperature region of the resistivity of
ThPt₄Ge₁₂. Despite the large noise in experimental data, one
unambiguously observes a transition to superconducting state that takes
place at T_(c)=4.8(1) K in zero magnetic field. The critical temperature
gradually diminishes with rising field strength and already in a field
of 0.4 T drops below 0.35 K (the terminal flow temperature in this
study).

In the normal state, ThPt₄Ge₁₂ is a weak diamagnet with the magnetic
susceptibility of about 1.3 × 10⁻⁷ cm³ g⁻¹. As displayed in Fig. 2(a),
in a field of 20 mT, an onset of the superconducting state occurs at 4.4
K. The strong diamagnetic signal observed at 1.75 K upon cooling the
sample in zero field (ZFC) corresponds to the perfect shielding of the
total volume of the sample by supercurrents if the demagnetization
factor N of 0.21 is assumed.[8] The Meissner-Ochsenfeld effect
[field-cooled (FC) condition] is only 1.8

The low-temperature specific heat data of ThPt₄Ge₁₂, which were measured
in fields of 0 and 0.5 T, are shown in Fig. 3(a) as C_(p)^(′)T versus
T². A distinct jump observed in zero magnetic field indicates the onset
of superconductivity at T_(c)=4.62(1) K. This value, which is derived
from entropy balance construction, is slightly lower than that revealed
from the resistivity measurements. In a field of 0.5 T, the
superconductivity is totally suppressed. The normal-state specific heat
can be approximated in the range of 0.35−7 K with the function
C_(pn)(T)= γ_(n)+C_(ph), where C_(ph)= βT³+ δT⁵.[9] The limiting value
of the Debye temperature estimated from the value of β is about 217 K,
i.e., very similar to those

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the dc magnetic
susceptibility of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ measured in several different magnetic
fields after cooling the specimen in zero field. The inset shows the
temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility taken in a field
of 20 mT after cooling the specimen in zero (ZFC; full circles) and
applied (FC; open circles) fields. (b) Magnetic field dependence of the
magnetization in ThPt₄Ge₁₂ measured at 1.72 K with increasing (full
circles) and decreasing (open circles) field.

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity of ThPt₄Ge₁₂. For the sake of clarity, only every 15th
experimental point is displayed. The solid line is the WC fit described
in the text. (b) Low-temperature resistivity measured in zero and
several nonzero applied magnetic fields.

reported for the other MPt₄Ge₁₂ compounds.[4, 5] This result supports
the specific lattice vibration model developed for skutterudites in
which vibrations of the polyanion are described by the Debye term and
those of the guest cation by the Einstein term.[10] The normal-state
electronic specific heat coefficient γ_(n) was found to be 40 mJ mol⁻¹
K⁻², i.e., nearly identical to that derived for SrPt₄Ge₁₂ and BaPt₄Ge₁₂
(Ref. [4] and [5]) but about two times smaller than the values reported
for LaPt₄Ge₁₂ and PrPt₄Ge₁₂.[5]

In the inset of Fig. 3(a), the temperature dependence of the electronic
specific heat is shown, which is calculated as the difference
$C_{\rm es}$=C_(p)−C_(ph). The dimensionless specific heat jump at the
critical temperature $\Delta C_{\rm es}$/γ_(n)T_(c) amounts to 1.7. This
value is considerably larger than the BCS value of 1.426 and also
distinctly different from those found for the other Ge-based
skutterudites.[4, 5] Hence, in contrast to the other MPt₄Ge₁₂ compounds,
with a possible exception of that with M=Pr,[5] ThPt₄Ge₁₂ is clearly a
strong-coupling superconductor. This conclusion is corroborated by the
value of the electron-phonon coupling constant λ of about 0.57, which is
calculated from the relation $\Delta C_{\rm es}$/γ_(n)T_(c)=1.43
+0.942λ²=0.195λ³.[11] Another estimate for λ may be obtained from the
McMillan formula,[12] which yields similar value of about 0.62, for a
typical magnitude of the Coulomb pseudopotential μ^(α)= 0.1.

Fitting the experimental $C_{\rm es}$(7) data in terms of the BCS-type
formula, $C_{\rm es,BCS}$∼exp(−αT_(c)/T), where the parameter α is
related to the superconducting gap, yields α=1.7 that is larger than the
BCS value of 1.44. However, as is apparent from the inset of Fig. 3(a),
this description (marked by the dashed line) notably deviates from the
experimental curve at temperatures below 2.5 K. Instead, the
experimental data can be very well fitted by the sum
$C_{\rm es}$=$C_{\rm es,BCS}$+cT³ [note the solid line in the inset of
Fig. 3(a)], with α=1.44 and the coefficient c=3 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻⁴. The
presence of the T³ term in the temperature dependence of the
$C_{\rm es}$ may imply the existence of point-node energy gap structure,
but this hypothesis needs further investigation. It is tempting to
explore a possibility that the superconductivity in ThPtGe₁₂ is
unconventional. In this context it is worth noting that the magnetic
field dependence of the Sommerfeld ratio γ=C_(p)/T, which was measured
at 0.4 K [see Fig. 3(b)], is strongly nonlinear, i.e., at variance with
the behavior expected for a classical BCS-type superconductor. One may
recall that a nonlinear dependence of γ(7) has been observed for the
point-nodal superconductor YNi₂B₂C.[13]

The thermodynamic critical field μ₀H_(c2) can be calculated by an
integration of the specific heat data in the superconducting state
according to the equation $\frac{1}{2}\mu_{0}V_{M}H_{c0}^{2}(T)$
=ΔU(T)−TΔS, where ΔU=$\int_{T}^{T}(C_{\rm es}$−γ_(n)T^(′))dT is the
internal energy difference and
ΔS=$\int_{T}^{T}\frac{C_{\rm es}$−$T^{\prime}}{T^{\prime}}$ is the
entropy difference. For ThPt₄Ge₁₂, an extrapolation H_(c0)(T) to zero
temperature yields a value of 42 mT that is close to μ₀H_(c0)(0) derived
for the Sr- and Ba-containing counterparts.[4]

The temperature dependence of the upper critical field

Figure 4: (Color online) Upper critical field versus temperature
determined for ThPt₄Ge₁₂ from the resistivity (circles), magnetization
(triangles), and specific heat (squares) data. Filled square represents
the calculated value of H_(c2)(0) in the clean limit. Solid line
emphasizes a linear variation of H_(c2) with temperature.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the specific heat
of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ measured in zero magnetic field and in 0.5 T, which is
plotted as C_(p)/T versus T². Solid line is a fit discussed in the text.
The inset shows the electronic specific heat in the superconducting
state in the form of $C_{\rm es}$/T versus T. Dashed and solid lines are
the theoretical descriptions analyzed in the text. Dotted line is a
guide for the eyes. (b) Magnetic field dependence of the Sommerfeld
ratio γ=C_(p)/T measured at T=0.4 K. Experimental error bars are of the
size of the symbols.

μ₀H_(c2) in ThPt₄Ge₁₂, which is derived from the electrical resistivity,
magnetization, and specific heat data, is shown in Fig. 4. Similar to
the case of the La- and Pr-containing analogs, ⁵μ₀H_(c2) varies linearly
with T. The slope −dμ₀H_(c2)/dT is 0.085 T K⁻¹, being a few times
smaller than the initial slope near T_(c) reported for SrPt₄Ge₁₂ and
BaPt₄Ge₁₂. By using formulas given in Refs. [14] and [15], one may
calculate the Fermi wave number k_(F)≈ 6.3× 10⁹ m⁻¹. Then, in the
framework of the model developed by Orlando _et al._, [15] this estimate
of k_(F), together with the experimental values of T_(c), ρ₀, and γ,
yields the Fermi velocity v_(F)≈ 1.3× 10⁵ m s⁻¹, the effective mass
m^(*)≈ 5.6m_(o), the electronic mean free path of the quasiparticles l≈
435 nm, and the BCS coherence length ξ₀≈ 37 nm. The so-derived relation
l≫ξ₀ clearly corroborates the previously formulated hypothesis that
ThPt₄Ge₁₂ exhibits the clean-limit superconductivity. According to the
formula μ₀H_(c2)(0)=−0.73T_(c)(dμ₀H_(c2)/dT)_(T), which is appropriate
for the clean limit, [16] the upper critical field at zero temperature
amounts to about 0.29 T (indicated by the solid square in Fig. 4). This
value is in fairly good agreement with the experimental data, yet almost
an order of magnitude lower than those reported for the other MPt₄Ge₁₂
compounds. [4, 5] From the values of μ₀H_(c2) and μ₀H_(c1), one can
determine the Ginzburg-Landau coherence length $\xi_{\rm LG}$ and the
penetration depth $\lambda_{\rm GL}$ to be equal to ≈35 and ≈150 nm,
respectively. [17] Hence, the Ginzburg-Landau parameter
$\kappa_{\rm LG}$ for ThPt₄Ge₁₂ is estimated to be about 4.5, which is
well within the range for type-II superconductivity. This result may be
compared to $\kappa_{\rm LG}$=14, which is obtained for SrPt₄Ge₁₂, and
$\kappa_{\rm LG}$=24, which is found for BaPt₄Ge₁₂. [4]

In conclusion, ThPt₄Ge₁₂ is another representative of the recently
discovered family of MPt₄Ge₁₂ intermetallics crystallizing in the filled
skutterudite structure. Like the compounds with M=Sr, Ba, La, and Pr, it
exhibits type-II superconductivity at low temperatures (T_(c)=4.62 K).
However, in contrast to the other phases, ThPt₄Ge₁₂ can be classified as
a clean-limit superconductor. Its characteristic thermodynamic features
indicate strong electron-phonon coupling. Most interestingly, some
properties in the superconducting state (the temperature dependence of
the electronic specific heat $C_{\rm es}$ and the magnetic field
dependence of the Sommerfeld coefficient γ) deviate from the predictions
of the BCS theory. Taken together these findings provoke an intriguing
conjecture that the superconductivity in ThPt₄Ge₁₂ may be
unconventional.

The work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education
through the research Grants No. N202 116 32/3270 and No. N202 082/0449.

## References

* [1] W. Jeitschko and D. J. Braun, Acta Crystallogr., Sect. B: Struct.
Crystallogr. Cryst. Chem. **33**, 3401 (1977). * [2] B. C. Sales, in
_Handbook on the Physics and Chemistry of Rare Earths_, edited by K. A.
Gschneidner, Jr., J.-C. G. Bunzli, and V. K. Pecharsky (Elsevier,
Amsterdam, 2003), Vol. 33, Chap. 211, pp. 1-34. * [3] C. Uber, in
_Chemistry, Physics and Materials Science of Thermoelectric Materials:
Beyond Bismuth Telluride_, edited by M. G. Kanatzidis, S. D. Mahanti,
and T. P. Hogan (Kluwer, Dordrecht, 2003), pp. 121-146. * [4] E. Bauer,
A. Grytsiv, Xing-Qiu Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, G. Hilscher, H.
Kaldarar, H. Michor, E. Royanian, G. Giester, M. Rotter, R. Podloucky,
and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 217001 (2007). * [5] R. Gumeniuk,
W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, M. Nicklas, A. Leithe-Jasper, and Yu. Grin,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 017002 (2008). * [6] J. Rodriguez-Carvajal,
Physica B **192**, 55 (1992). * [7] D. W. Woodard and G. D. Cody, Phys.
Rev. **136**, A166 (1964). * [8] The accuracy of this estimation is
limited by experimental uncertainty in determining the material density
of the specimen measured. * [9] This formula corresponds to the Debye
model in which the low-frequency expansion of the density of phonon
modes D(ω) is cut on the ω⁴ term. * [10] V. Keppens, D. Mandrus, B. C.
Sales, B. C. Chakoumakos, P. Dai, R. Coldea, M. B. Maple, D. A.
Gajewski, E. J. Freeman, and S. Bennington, Nature (London) **395**, 876
(1998). * [11] V. Z. Kresin and V. P. Parkhomenko, Sov. Phys. Solid
State **16**, 2180 (1975). * [12] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**,
331 (1968). * [13] C. L. Huang, J.-Y. Lin, C. P. Sun, T. K. Lee, J. D.
Kim, E. M. Choi, S. I. Lee, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 012502
(2006). * [14] U. Rauchschwalbe, W. Lieke, C. D. Bredl, F. Steglich, J.
Aarts, K. M. Martini, and A. C. Mota, Phys. Rev. Lett. **49**, 1448
(1982). * [15] T. P. Orlando, E. J. McNiff, Jr., S. Foner, and M. R.
Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545 (1979). * [16] E. Helfand and N. R.
Werthamer, Phys. Rev. **147**, 288 (1966). * [17] V. L. Ginzburg and L.
D. Landau, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **20**, 1064 (1950).
