# Thermoelectricity of the ferromagnetic superconductor UCoGe

Liam Malone

Ludovic Howald

Alexandre Pourret

Dai Aoki

Valentin Taufour

Georg Knebel

Jacques Flouquet

INAC, SPSMS, CEA Grenoble, 17 rue des Martyrs, F-38054 Grenoble, France

###### Abstract

UCoGe exhibits superconductivity in the presence of ferromagnetism. When
a field is applied along the b axis (perpendicular to the easy axis),
ferromagnetism is weakened, and superconductivity is enhanced. This
enhancement has been attributed to an increase in coupling as observed
in the enhanced effective mass produced by the critical fluctuations as
the ferromagnetic transition is strongly suppressed. However, it is also
important to know if and how the Fermi surface changes near the critical
point. Here we report measurements of the thermoelectricity of UCoGe
that reveal a low-carrier-density metal. Under magnetic field applied
along the b axis, a sharp peak is observed in the thermopower of UCoGe
at H^(*) = 11.1 T and low temperature that becomes broader at higher
temperatures. At higher field, the thermopower changes sign, which
suggests a modification of the Fermi surface. We analyze these results
using a topological change in the Fermi surface and show that this can
explain both the thermopower and the enhanced superconductivity.

2012 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.024526

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity coexisting with ferromagnetism in
three uranium-based compounds, UGe₂,[1] URhGe,[2] and most recently
UCoGe,[3] has attracted much interest due to the unusual properties of
the superconducting state and the proximity to a critical pressure where
the ground state of each compound switches from ferromagnetic (FM) to
paramagnetic (PM). The enhanced ferromagnetic fluctuations in these
Ising ferromagnets give rise to unconventional phenomena, such as
reentrant superconductivity[45] and spin-triplet superconductivity.[6,
7] In the cases of URhGe and UCoGe, a moderate field applied
perpendicular to the easy axis can strongly suppress the Curie
temperature to zero temperature.[4, 8] For URhGe this reveals a
reentrant superconducting phase and a reorientation of the magnetic
moment[5] to be parallel to the applied field. For UCoGe, an enhancement
of the superconducting temperature is observed.[4]

The phase diagram of a weak itinerant ferromagnet has been the subject
of recent theoretical[9] and experimental work.[10, 11] Measurements on
UGe₂ under pressure P and field H (Ref. [10]; applied along the easy
axis) have demonstrated that the phase diagram has a tricritical point
where the transition from the PM to the FM becomes first order and
bifurcates in the H-P plane, resulting in quantum critical end points at
high field and high pressure,[10] which is in rough agreement with the
theoretical predictions.[9] However, the changes in the Fermi surface in
UGe₂ (Ref. [12]) are not accounted for in the theory, even though these
changes can explain some of the features of UGe.[13] Also, it has been
shown that topological transitions near quantum critical points can lead
to unconventional critical behavior.[14]

In this paper, we focus on UCoGe. At ambient pressure, this compound is
a weak ferromagnet with a Curie temperature T_(C) ∼ 2.8 K associated
with a spontaneous moment of M₀ ∼ 0.04μ_(B) directed along the c axis at
T = 0 K.[3] The superconducting transition temperature T_(SC) ∼ 0.6 K in
zero field. Applying pressure suppresses ferromagnetism and enhances
superconductivity until T_(C) ∼ T_(SC) at around 1.25 GPa.[15] Above
this pressure, the ferromagnetic transition is not observed. This
pressure dependence could imply that UCoGe sits very close to the
tricritical point. NMR measurements[16] have suggested that the PM-FM
transition is first order in UCoGe. Applying a field along the b axis
also suppresses ferromagnetism[17, 18] and enhances superconductivity,
resulting in an unconventional S-shaped upper critical field H_(c2)
curve.[4]

Thermoelectric effects are very sensitive to changes in the Fermi
surface topology and effective mass enhancements, as has been shown in
several studies, for example, on CeRu₂Si₂ (Ref. [19]) and CeCoIn₅.[20]
Quantum oscillation experiments[21] on UCoGe have revealed an unusual
field dependence of the cyclotron masses in fields greater than 20 T
along the b axis. In this paper we report measurements of the
thermopower of UCoGe as a function of field applied along the b axis to
examine these effects in the region of reentrant superconductivity
(H_(b) ∼ 10 T). We suggest that the Fermi surface of UCoGe undergoes a
topological change as the ground state switches from FM to PM under
applied field and compare this with recent band-structure calculations.
We also argue that this change in the Fermi surface can be used to
explain the unusual H_(c2) curve.

## II Experimental Method

Single crystals of UCoGe were grown using the Czhochralski method in a
tetra-arc furnace. The residual resistivity ratio (RRR) of the measured
sample was around 30. The thermopower was measured using the
two-thermometer, one-heater technique at temperatures down to 100 mK and
in fields up to 18 T. All measurements were performed in both positive
and negative fields and averaged to prevent contamination of the Nernst
signal in the Seebeck. Thermometers were calibrated against a germanium
thermometer in a field-compensated region up to 16 T and down to 100 mK.
The temperature gradient was applied along the a axis of the crystal,
and the field was applied along the b axis in all measurements. Based on
the angular dependance of the upper critical field H_(c2) curves,[4] the
crystals were aligned along the b axis to <5^(∘) with respect to the
magnetic field H. The setup also allows _in situ_ measurement of the
resistivity; therefore all data presented below were taken on the same
sample in the same conditions.

## III Results

Figure 1 shows the temperature and field dependence of the thermopower
divided by temperature S/T of UCoGe.

In 0 T, S/T shows a small anomaly at T_(C) = 2.8 K that is followed by a
slight increase of S/T until the superconducting transition T_(SC) = 0.6
K. In a free electron gas, S/T is constant at low temperature and its
amplitude is inversely proportional to the Fermi temperature, with a
sign that reflects the type of charge carrier. For UCoGe, S/T is ∼3
μV/K² just above T_(SC), indicating the dominant carriers are hole like.
In a free electron gas, the ratio q ($=\frac{S}{T}\frac{\kappa}{\nu}$,
N_(a) is Avogadro’s number) of the thermoelectric power to the
Sommerfeld coefficient γ of the linear term in specific heat is a
constant.[22] It has been observed in a large variety of strongly
correlated systems that the low-temperature value of S/T scales with the
Sommerfeld coefficient via ratio q, which is inversely proportional to
the carrier number. Furthermore, despite the complexity of multiband
systems, it has been shown[23] that even in compensated cases (such as
URu₂Si₂) the thermoelectric response is dominated by one carrier type,
and thus the scaling factor q holds. For UCoGe, q = 5 (γ = 57 mJ/mol K²;
Ref. [3]), which indicates UCoGe has a low carrier density. This is
similar to the case of URu₂Si₂, which also has q ∼ 5 and is a
low-carrier semimetal. Recent quantum oscillation measurements[15, 24]
and thermopower measurements[25] imply the Fermi surface of URu₂Si₂ is
strongly modified in a moderate field (of the order of 20 T applied
along the easy magnetization axis). This could be the same in UCoGe as
the quasiparticle masses are heavy,[21, 26] and this coupled with the
low carrier density leads to a small bandwidth, which can be strongly
modified by a moderate field.

As the field is increased, S/T remains roughly constant (∼3 μV/K²) up to
∼10 T. At all measured temperatures (up to 3.5 K), a peak is observed
centered on H^(*) = 11.1 T. This field is independent of temperature,
but at higher temperatures the peak is broader and less pronounced. The
peak is present even above the zero-field T_(C). Above H^(*), at low
temperature a second anomaly is observed at H^(**) = 14.6 T that is
smaller and indistinguishable from the background at temperatures above
∼2 K. At higher field a change of sign of S/T is observed, indicating a
change in the dominant carrier type and therefore a Fermi surface
change. This is the field range where quantum oscillations have been
observed.[21] There is a strong temperature dependence of S/T at H^(*),
with the magnitude of S/T increasing up to ∼7 μV/K² at the
superconducting transition temperature. This could indicate one of two
possibilities: H^(*) could be a critical point where one would expect an
enhancement of the effective mass and hence thermopower[20, 27] or H^(*)
could be a topological change in the Fermi surface, which can give a
large thermopower anomaly at low temperature as described by
Lifshitz.[28] The fact that H^(*) is visible above the Curie temperature
is interesting. If it is a Fermi-surface instability, then it implies
that an element of the Fermi surface is constant in the ferromagnetic
and paramagnetic state at low fields, which is contrary to recent
band-structure calculations[29] but consistent with fact that the
zero-field thermopower shows only a small anomaly at T_(C). If it is a
critical point, then the fluctuations are felt to high temperature,
perhaps indicating a quantum critical point at H^(*). It should be noted
that the thermopower data imply there is a topological change between
the zero-field PM state and the field-induced PM state as the change of
sign occurs even at temperatures above T_(C). This could be

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Thermopower divided by temperature S/T as a
function of field applied along the b axis H_(b) at several
temperatures. A large peak is observed at H^(*) = 11.1 T at all
temperatures, a smaller anomaly is observed at H^(**) = 14.6 T at low
temperature, and a change of sign is observed above 16 T. The inset is a
diagram of the setup showing the applied field H, the temperature
gradient ΔT, the measured thermoelectric voltage ΔV, and the zero-field
magnetization M₀ compared with the crystal axis. (b) Temperature
dependence at two fields, 0 T and H^(*). In 0 T both the Curie
temperature T_(c) and the superconducting transition T_(SC) are
observed. For H = H^(*) a possible logarithmic divergence is observed
above T_(SC). The inset shows H = H^(*) data on a semilog plot,
illustrating the divergence above T_(SC).

evidence that the comparable scale of the Fermi energy and Zeeman energy
is at least partly responsible for the modification of the Fermi surface
such as is observed in URu₂Si₂ (Refs. [24] and [25]). Finally, strong
evidence for a Lifshitz transition is that the maximum thermoelectric
response at H^(*) is enhanced compared with the response expected from
the effective mass enhancements measured in a perfectly aligned
crystal.[4]

Figure 2(a) shows the superconducting phase diagram of UCoGe derived
from thermopower and resistivity data. The so-called S-shaped H_(c2)
curve is slightly suppressed, probably due to the slight sample
misalignment, and is visible as a sudden upturn in the H_(c2) curve. The
calculated H_(c2) curve for a polar p-wave state is also shown
calculated in Ref. [30] and following Ref. [6] based on the initial
slope of H_(c2). H^(*) seems to coincide with the near-vertical region
of H_(c2), suggesting that it drives the enhanced superconductivity
phase. Figure 2(b) shows the thermopower in the critical region after a
smooth background is subtracted. The two-peak structure can be
reasonably well fitted with two Lorentzians centered on H^(*)and H^(**).
The fit is to the function
$S=S^{**}(\frac{\Delta H^{*}}{(H-H^{*})^{2}+\Delta H^{**2}})+S^{*}(\frac{\Delta H ^{*}}{(H-H^{*})^{2}+\Delta H^{**2}})$,
where S^(**) (S^(*)) is the amplitude of the peak at H^(**) (H^(*)) and
ΔH^(**) (ΔH^(*)) is the width of the peak at H^(**) (H^(*)). Both peaks
are well fitted with a similar width but different amplitudes. Figure
2(c) shows ΔH as a function of temperature for both peaks and is linear
in temperature with a finite intercept. This is consistent with a change
in Fermi surface as temperature broadens the effect but the field
required for the change is constant. As the temperature dependences of
the widths of the H^(*) and H^(**) anomalies are very similar, it is
reasonable to assume they have the same origin. One possible
experimental origin is a small inclusion of misaligned crystal in the
sample. Another possible origin is that the complexity of the Fermi
surface leads to different characteristic fields, as recently observed
in URu₂Si₂.[24]

Resistivity measurements taken on the same setup are also shown in
Figure 2. In 0 T, the resistivity shows a T² dependence between T_(C)
and T_(SC), indicating a conventional Fermi liquid. As the field is
increased, the temperature dependence of the resistivity becomes less
like a Fermi liquid in the measured temperature range, which is expected
as enhanced fluctuations drive the T² behavior to low temperature. At
H^(*) the resistivity can be fitted with $\rho\sim T^{\frac{5}{3}}$ from
1.5 K to T_(SC), in agreement with FM spin-fluctuation theory close to a
FM critical point.[31] This coupled with $\frac{5}{T}\sim\ln(T)$ at
H^(*)(see Fig. 1), which has been observed at an antiferromagnetic
critical point[27] but can be applied to weakly ferromagnetic
metals,[31] stresses that H^(*) is an FM critical point. Our experiment
is only performed to 16 T, i.e., still close to H^(*); in higher
magnetic fields a ρ ∼ T² law must be recovered, although this can be
masked by quantum orbital effects when measuring magnetoresistivity in
the transverse configuration. The enhanced FM correlations at this point
would lead to an enhanced H_(c2) similar to the mechanism proposed[32]
for reentrant superconductivity in URhGe. However, this scenario does
not explain the presence of two anomalies in the thermopower. This plus
the evidence of a Fermi surface modification in high magnetic field
implies that the Fermi surface is strongly affected by the applied
field. Enhancement of superconductivity through topological changes of
the Fermi surface has already been considered for CeCu₂Si₂.[33] In the
following we argue that the Fermi surface modification under field can
lead to the enhanced T_(SC) in UCoGe.

In a metal the thermopower can be written as

$$\frac{S}{T}=-\frac{\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}}{3e}\left[\frac{1}{A_{k}}\frac{\delta A_{ k}}{\delta E}+\frac{1}{l}\frac{\delta l}{\delta E}\right]_{E=E_{f}},$$
(1)

where A_(k) is the area of the Fermi surface in reciprocal space, l is
the mean free path, and E_(f) is the Fermi energy. For the

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Phase diagram of UCoGe in the T-H_(b) plane
using thermopower data and resistivity data showing H_(c2), H^(*), and
H^(**). The dashed lines are a calculation for a polar p-wave state
(black) and the same calculation assuming a variation of v_(F) with
field (pink). (b) H^(*) and H^(**) at two different temperatures with
background subtracted. Lines are a fit to two Lorentz distributions, one
centered on H^(**) and one on H^(*) (some points not shown for clarity).
(c) Width of H^(*) and H^(**) taken from the Lorentz distribution fit as
a function of temperature. The lines are linear fits. (d) Resistivity
data at 0 T as a function of temperature. The line is fit to
$\rho=\rho_{0}+AT^{\frac{5}{3}}$ below 1.5 K. (f) Field dependence of
thermopower and resistivity taken at 0.35 K. The dashed line is the
assumed background used for Lorentzian fits in (b).

following we assume l is energy independent, and therefore S/T is
dominated by the first term in the equation. A large thermopower is
observed when the area of the Fermi surface is strongly dependent on
energy. This is the case near an extremum in the band where a small
change in Fermi energy will change the Fermi surface area by a large
amount. At finite temperature the observed increase in thermopower would
be broadened by a factor kT, as observed in Fig. 2(c). If the Fermi
energy is at an extremum in the band, then the Fermi velocity v_(f) is
also very small ($v_{f}=|\frac{gE_{k}}{kT}|_{F}$). A decreased Fermi
velocity will increase the orbital limit of superconductivity and
therefore increase H_(c2) in the absence of the Pauli limiting (as is
the case in UCoGe). In UCoGe, if the anomaly in S/T at H^(*) is the
result of the band structure being modified by the field to a point with
a reduced v_(F), then the orbital limit of superconductivity will
increase and H_(c2) will appear to increase. Figure 2(a) shows an H_(c2)
curve calculated for a polar band state [30] with a v_(F) assumed to be
related to S/T at low temperature (S/T ∼ 1/v_(F) normalized to the
zero-field values) up to H^(*). H^(**) would be a second band being
modified, and then at higher fields the holelike Fermi surface has been
suppressed, and an electron-like Fermi surface is recovered.

To date, there has been one band-structure calculation reported. [29]
The calculation predicts there is a Fermi-surface change between the
ferromagnetic and paramagnetic states. The paramagnetic state has three
bands that cross the Fermi level, and the ferromagnetic state has four.
Both states have a small Fermi surface, which is roughly consistent with
the measured thermopower. In the ferromagnetic state, there are several
extremum in bands close to the Fermi level particularly close to the Γ
point of the Brillouin zone, which could result in an increased
thermoelectric response. However, to confirm this band structure, a full
quantum oscillation study needs to be performed. This is similar to
UGe₂, where Fermi-surface reconstruction and critical spin fluctuations
are associated, presumably due to the presence of flat bands near the
Fermi level. [34] Recently, similar conclusions have also been reported
for URhGe. [35]

## IV Conclusion

In conclusion, the zero-field thermopower of UCoGe implies a low-carrier
metal in the ferromagnetic state. Applying a field perpendicular to the
easy axis enhances the superconductivity, and the thermopower exhibits a
sharp peak at low temperature in proximity to an enhanced T_(SC). The
temperature dependence of the thermopower is consistent with
ferromagnetic fluctuations being driven to 0 K. At higher fields, a
second anomaly is observed, and the thermopower changes sign, implying a
Fermi surface reconstruction. Clearly, a Fermi surface change must also
be included in theoretical descriptions. Our results stress the
importance of taking into the account the Fermi surface in future
theoretical studies of ferromagnetism around a critical point and
emphasize the necessity to have a detailed understanding of the
electronic band structure.

###### Acknowledgements.

We acknowledge the financial support of the French ANR within the
programs DELICE, CORMAT, AND SINUS and the European Commission from the
7th Framework Programme "Transnational access," contract No
228043-EuromagNETII-Integrated Activities. We thank K. Behnia for his
comments.

## References

* [1] S. Saxena, P. Agarwal, K. Ahilan, F. Grosche, R. Haselwimmer, M.
Steiner, E. Pugh, I. Walker, S. Julian, P. Monthoux, G. Lonzarich, A.
Huxley, I. Sheikin, D. Braithwaite, and J. Flouquet, Nature (London)
**406**, 587 (2000). * [2] D. Aoki, A. Huxley, E. Ressouche, D.
Braithwaite, J. Flouquet, J. P. Brison, E. Lhotel, and C. Paulsen,
Nature (London) **413**, 613 (2001). * [3] N. T. Huy, A. Gasparini, D.
E. de Nijs, Y. Huang, J. C. P. Klaasse, T. Gortenmulder, A. de Visser,
A. Hamann, T. Gorlach, and H. V. Lohneysen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**,
067006 (2007). * [4] D. Aoki, T. D. Matsuda, V. Taufour, E. Hassinger,
G. Knebel, and J. Flouquet, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 113709 (2009). *
[5] F. Levy, I. Sheikin, B. Grenier, and A. D. Huxley, Science **309**,
1343 (2005). * [6] N. T. Huy, D. E. de Nijs, Y. K. Huang, and A. de
Visser, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 077002 (2008). * [7] E. Slooten, T.
Naka, A. Gasparini, Y. K. Huang, and A. de Visser, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**103**, 097003 (2009). * [8] F. Levy, I. Sheikin, and A. Huxley, Nat.
Phys. **3**, 460 (2007). * [9] D. Belitz, T. R. Kirkpatrick, and J.
Rollbuhler, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 247205 (2005). * [10] V. Taufour,
D. Aoki, G. Knebel, and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 217201
(2010). * [11] H. Kotegawa, V. Taufour, D. Aoki, G. Knebel, and J.
Flouquet, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn **80**, 083703 (2011). * [12] Y. Haga, M.
Nakashima, R. Settai, S. Ikeda, T. Okubo, and S. Araki, Mater. Sci.
**125** (2002). * [13] K. Sandeman, G. Lonzarich, and A. Schofield,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 167005 (2003). * [14] Y. Yamaji, T. Misawa, and
M. Imada, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 063702 (2007). * [15] E. Hassinger,
D. Aoki, G. Knebel, and J. Flouquet, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 073703
(2008). * [16] T. Ohta, T. Hattori, K. Ishida, Y. Nakai, E. Osaki, K.
Deguchi, N. K. Sato, and I. Satoh, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 023707
(2010). * [17] D. Aoki and J. Flouquet, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**,
011003 (2012). * [18] F. Hardy, D. Aoki, C. Meingast, P. Schweiss, P.
Burger, H. V. Lohneysen, and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 195107
(2011). * [19] A. Amato, D. Jaccard, J. Sierro, F. Lapierre, P. Haen, P.
Lejay, and J. Flouquet, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **76**, 263 (1988). * [20]
K. Izawa, K. Behnia, Y. Matsuda, H. Shishido, R. Settai, Y. Onuki, and
J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 147005 (2007). * [21] D. Aoki, I.
Sheikin, T. D. Matsuda, V. Taufour, G. Knebel, and J. Flouquet, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **80**, 013705 (2011).

* (23) K. Behnia, D. Jaccard, and J. Flouquet, J. Phys. Condens. Matter
**16**, 5187 (2004). * (24) V. Zlatic, R. Monnier, J. K. Freericks, and
K. W. Becker, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 085122 (2007). * (25) M. M.
Altarawneh, N. Harrison, S. E. Sebastian, L. Balicas, P. H. Tobash, J.
D. Thompson, F. Ronning, and E. D. Bauer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**,
146403 (2011). * (26) L. Malone, T. D. Matusda, A. Antunes, G. Knebel,
V. Taufour, D. Aoki, K. Behnia, C. Proust, and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 245117 (2011). * (27) G. Knebel (private communication). * (28)
S. Hartmann, N. Oeschler, C. Krellner, C. Geibel, S. Paschen, and F.
Steglich, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 096401 (2010). * (29) I. M.
Lifshitz, Sov. Phys. JETP **11**, 1130 (1960). * (30) M. Samsel-Czekaa,
S. Elgazzar, P. M. Oppeneer, E. Talik, W. Walczzyk, and R. Troc, J.
Phys. Condens. Matter **22**, 015503 (2010). * (31) K. Schamberg and R.
A. Klemm, Phys. Rev. B **22**, 5233 (1980). * (32) T. Moriya, _Spin
Fluctuations in Itinerant Electron Magnetism_ (Springer, Berlin,
1985). * (33) A. Miyake, D. Aoki, and J. Flouquet, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**77**, 094709 (2008). * (34) F. Thomas, C. Ayachey, I. A. Fonine, J.
Thomasson, and C. Geibel, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **8**, L51 (1996). *
(35) J. Flouquet, _Progress in Low Temperature Physics XV_, edited by W.
Halperin (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2005). * (36) E. Yelland, J. Barraclough,
W. Wang, K. Kamenev, and A. Huxley, Nat. Phys. **7**, 890 (2011).
