First-order vortex lattice melting in twinned NdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) single
crystals

A. K. Pradhan, S. Shibata, K. Nakao, and N. Koshizuka

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, ISITEC, 10-13 Shinonome, 1-Chome,
Koto-ku, Tokyo 135-0062, Japan

Received 11 January 1999

###### Abstract

We report on the observation of a first-order melting transition of the
flux-line lattice in a twinned NdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) single crystal by
transport (for both _H_/_c_ and _H_/_ab_ directions) and magnetization
measurements. The position of kink and hysteresis in resistance and
magnetization jump coincides in the _B-T_ plane. The observed melting
transition is a strong function of O₂ partial pressure during growth.
The first-order transition becomes continuous and the peak in critical
current density first emerges with oxygen partial pressure >=0.07

## I Introduction

First-order _melting_ transition from an Abrikosov vortex lattice state
to a vortex liquid state has been recently observed in clean and
untwinned YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) (YBCO) single crystals [1, 2, 3, 4] in a
variety of experiments probing characteristic singularities in specific
heat, magnetization, vortex transport, and neutron diffraction. The
first-order melting line is characterized by a sharp "kink," hysteresis
in resistance near the kink region, and, more importantly, a sharp jump
in magnetization [3] revealing the actual thermodynamic signature of the
first-order transition. The first-order transition in YBCO single
crystals is suppressed by disorders as demonstrated in twinned [5] and
electron-irradiated untwinned single crystals. [6] Similar signatures in
favor of a first-order transition have been observed in optimally and
overdoped Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x) single crystals. [7]

It remains, however, unsuccessful so far to obtain high quality clean
other rare-earth-based single crystals to exhibit the first-order
transition. The recent investigation of a magnetic rare-earth-based
superconductor, NdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) (NdBCO) is very exciting due to its
high-T_(c) ( 95 K) and high flux pinning resulting in high critical
current density, J_(c). [8, 9, 10] The efficient flux pinning by
magnetic rare-earth ions (Nd) on Ba sites in NdBCO is thought to be a
natural consequence. [11] The magnetic rare-earth ions on Ba sites are
thought to be one of the best flux pinners and pair breakers due to
magnetic scattering. For this reason, NdBCO single crystals are believed
to retain some disorders both due to Nd on Ba site substitution and
oxygen vacancies as well. Apart from these defects, NdBCO crystal
contains twin boundaries as found in YBCO crystal. Unlike YBCO, there is
no report so far available on a pure NdBCO crystal having 123
stoichiometry. Probably, it has been thought that NdBCO is an
intrinsically nonstoichiometric system having
Nd_(1 + x)Ba_(2 − x)Cu₃O_(7 − y) structure. Several magnetization and
transport measurements have been reported on this crystal in favor of a
continuous or vortex glass transition. [12, 13]

In this paper, we present transport and magnetization measurements on a
very high quality twinned NdBCO single crystal and demonstrated the
observation of a first-order melting transition in such a system for the
first time. The sharper "kink" feature in high field compared to the
zero-field resistance, hysteresis in the field dependence of the
resistance in both field orientations together with jump in
magnetization confirm this interesting observation. Precise
current-voltage (_I-V_) characteristic clearly distinguishes the melting
of solid into a liquid phase. The most important point in our
observation is that the first-order transition in NdBCO single crystal,
previously thought to be an intrinsically nonstoichiometric system, is
found to be robust even in the presence of twin boundaries. We have also
shown how this first-order transition turns out to be continuous with
increasing Nd-Ba substitution.

## II Experiment

The present samples were grown by self-flux method using a special
technique under 0.01-0.07

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of the resistance for NdBCO
single crystal with PO2 = 0.03

We have shown the influence of current density on the melting transition
in the inset of Fig. 2 for two current densities, I_(s) = 0.06 A/cm² and
1.2 A/cm² at H = 7 T for H∥ab plane. The height of the kink remains
constant, however, T_(m) was found to shift downward only by 0.05 K for
higher current density. In order to have more insight into the current
dependency on the melting transition, we show I-V curves in Fig. 2 at H
= 5 T for H∥c recorded with a temperature interval of 0.1 K over a wide
temperature range near the kink region. The I-V curves display an Ohmic
behavior above the kink at 87.2 K. In the narrow transition region of
the kink (within 200 mK), the I-V curves show characteristic S-shape
curves displaying a drastic change in the vortex state. At low
temperature, below 87 K, the I-V curves exhibit concave

Figure 2: I-V characteristics in a field of 5 T for H∥c at T = 86.6–0.1
K interval to 87.7 K and 0.2 K interval to 89.5 K. The corresponding
T_(m) at 87.2 K is shown in the figure. The inset shows the resistive
transition in a magnetic field of 7 T for H∥ab for two current
densities.

Figure 1: (a) Resistive transition in magnetic fields of 0, 0.1, 0.5, 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 T for H∥c in a twinned NdB₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) crystal
with PO2 = 0.03

downward curvature arising from the pinned nature of the vortex solid
and a finite critical current. This characteristic sharp change in _I-V_
curves strongly support the occurrence of a first-order transition from
a liquid to an ordered vortex solid state.

In Fig. 3 we show the field dependence of _Jc_ at 77 K calculated using
Bean critical state model for four crystals grown in different PO2
(0.01-0.1

In order to have a clear comparison, we show the temperature-dependent
resistive transitions for PO2 = 0.05 and 0.07

Figure 4: (a) Resistive transition in magnetic fields for H |_c_ in a
twinned NdBaCuO7− crystal with PO2 = 0.05

Figure 5: _I-V_ characteristics in a field of 5.5 T for H |_c_ for PO2 =
0.05

Figure 3: Field dependent critical current density, _Jc_ at T = 77 K for
crystals grown in various oxygen partial pressure for H |_c_. Inset
shows the resistive transitions for H |_c_ in these crystals exhibiting
a crossover from a first-order melting to a continuous transition at H =
5 T.

place and acts as pinning centers giving rise to high J_(c) .

Now we will discuss the thermodynamic evidence of the first-order
melting transition in crystal with PO2 = 0.03

In Fig. 7 we show the magnetic phase diagram from resistance and
magnetization measurements. The melting transitions from resistance
curves were determined plotting dR/dT vs T as shown in the inset of Fig.
1(b) and from magnetization jump for magnetization. A very good
coincidence was observed establishing a fact that the magnetization jump
and resistance kink are the manifestation of the same first-order
flux-line lattice transition. The melting line is well described by a
power law of the form H_(m)(T) = 155(1 − T/T_(c))^(1.4) and
H_(m)(T) = 910(1 − T/T_(c))^(1.38) for H∥c and H∥ab, respectively, using
T_(c) value of 95.65 K. The power-law exponent is theoretically
predicted as 2 for melting transition in low fields,[15, 16] but should
be approaching unity for higher fields. Hence the above value is
reasonably good for the melting of flux-line lattice. The ratio of the
prefactors for above both directions yields a mass anisotropy,
γ=(M/m)^(1/2)∼ 5.9 and this value is comparable or slightly lower than
the value for YBCO single crystal.[17]

In order to test the melting transition in view of the Lindemann
criterion of vortex lattice melting, we used the following
expression[15] for the Lindemann constant c_(L) which successfully
explains the melting transition in YBCO crystal:[1]

c_(L)⁴  ∼  {[B_(m)/H_(c2)(T_(m))]/(1 − T_(m)/T_(c))}(G_(i)γ²/5.6),

where B_(m) is the melting field, H_(c2) is the upper critical field,
and G_(i) is the Ginzburg parameter 16π²κ⁴(k_(B)T_(c))²/Φ₀³H_(c2)(0)∼
4.6× 10⁻⁵ with κ∼ 55 and H_(c2)(0)∼ 287 T (using dH_(c2)/dT∼ - 3 T/K for
H∥ab). Using B_(m) = 4 T, T_(m) = 88.2 K, T_(c) = 95.65 K, and H_(c2)∼
22 T, we obtain c_(L)∼ 0.16 which is in excellent agreement with the
theoretical prediction. It is noted that the values of dH/dT∼ - 3 T/K
for H∥ab and dH/dT∼ - 1 T/K for H∥c are quite different than those of
YBCO crystal displaying a much stiffer melting line in NdBCO crystal.
Considering higher T_(c) with sharp ΔT_(c) , absence of flux pinning due
to Nd/Ba substitutional defects, a distinct first-order melting
transition, and a lower γ value we conclude that this material maintains
nearly stoichiometric Nd-123 structure.

The influence of correlated disorder such as twin boundaries on the
melting transition has been studied by many authors.[15, 18] Twin
boundaries are known to suppress the melting transition promoting
disentanglement, stabilizing a liquid of vortex lines, and establishing
the c-axis correlation of vortex lines.[18] The velocity correlation is
lost when the sample thickness coincides with the vortex cutting length
l_(c) which is typically less than 100 μm for a twinned crystal. In view
of the above, we speculate that (i) the thickness of our crystal is too
large (0.36 mm) to promote vortex correlation by twin boundaries to
influence on the melting transition and consequently on the kink height
and (ii) the twin boundary pinning is either too weak or absent for H≈
0.2 T to influence the melting process. We conclude that in contrast to
YBCO in which a Bose-glass transition was recently ob

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of the magnetization at 4 T for H∥c for
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) cases for PO2 = 0.03

Figure 7: The magnetic phase diagram of the melting transition for H∥c
and H∥ab for PO2 = 0.03

served by Grigera _et al._,[19] the presence of twin boundaries alone
does not suppress the melting transition in high quality NdBCO single
crystal in high-field region. Recently, first-order-like melting
transition was observed in twinned YBCO crystal by specific heat[19] and
from the resistance[19] measurements in the high-field (H≈6 T) region
only for H∥_c_. Another suspect is the misalignment of the angle with
respect to H∥_c_ where the influence of twin boundaries is reduced.[4]
The accuracy for alignment of angle for magnetization measurements is
certainly less than ∼0.5^(∘) for H∥_c_ in which we observed the
thermodynamic signature of the first-order transition at the same field
at which kink in resistance was observed.

## IV Conclusion

In summary, we have shown that the first-order melting transition occurs
in twinned NdBCO single crystal, a previously thought intrinsic
nonstoichiometric system, displaying a kink in resistance and jump in
magnetization. The melting transition is distinctly observed in the
crystal with an optimal oxygen partial pressure up to 0.05

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the New Energy and Industrial Technology
Development Organization (NEDO).

## References

* [1] H. Safer, P. L. Gammel, D. A. Huse, and D. J. Bishop, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **69**, 824 (1992); W. K. Kwok, S. Fleshler, U. Welp, V. M.
Vinokur, J. Downey, G. W. Crabtree, and M. M. Miller, _ibid._**69**,
3370 (1992). * [2] D. E. Farrell, J. P. Rice, and D. M. Gingsberg, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **67**, 1165 (1991). * [3] U. Welp, J. A. Fendrich, W. K.
Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, and B. W. Veal, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 4809
(1996). * [4] W. K. Kwok, J. Fendrich, U. Welp, S. Fleshler, J. Downey,
and G. W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 1088 (1994); **72**, 1092
(1994). * [5] S. Fleshler, W. K. Kwok, U. Welp, W. M. Vinokur, M. K.
Smith, J. Downey, and G. W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 14 448
(1993); D. Lopez, E. F. Righi, G. Nieva, and F. de la Cruz, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **76**, 4034 (1996). * [6] J. A. Fendrich, W. K. Kwok, J.
Giapintzakis, C. J. van der Beek, V. M. Vinokur, S. Fleshler, U. Welp,
H. K. Viswanathan, and G. W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1210
(1995). * [7] H. Pastoreza, M. F. Goffman, A. Arribere, and F. de la
Cruz, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 2951 (1994). * [8] S. I. Yoo, N. Sakai,
H. Takaichi, and M. Murakami, Appl. Phys. Lett. **65**, 633 (1994). *
[9] T. Egi, J. G. Wen, K. Kuroda, H. Unoki, and N. Koshizuka, Appl.
Phys. Lett. **67**, 2406 (1995). * [10] W. Ting, T. Egi, K. Kuroda, N.
Koshizuka, and S. Tanaka, Appl. Phys. Lett. **70**, 770 (1997); Th.
Wolf, A.-C. Bornarel, H. Kupfer, R. Meir-Hirmer, and B. Obst, Phys. Rev.
B **56**, 6308 (1997). * [11] H. A. Blackstead and J. D. Dow, Appl.
Phys. Lett. **70**, 1891 (1997). * [12] A. K. Pradhan, K. Kuroda, K.
Nakao, and N. Koshizuka, Physica C **272**, 161 (1996); Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **11**, 408 (1998). * [13] T. Mimura, I. Terasaki, K. Tominoto,
S. Tajima, M. Nakamura, and Y. Shiohara, Physica C **300**, 212 (1998) *
[14] S. Shibata, A. K. Pradhan, and N. Koshizuka (unpublished). * [15]
A. Houghton, R. A. Pelcovits, and A. Sudbo, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6763
(1989); M. V. Fiegel’man and V. M. Vinokur, _ibid._**41**, 8986
(1989). * [16] L. I. Glazman and A. E. Koshelev, Phys. Rev. B **43**,
2835 (1991). * [17] D. E. Farrell, J. P. Rice, D. M. Gingsberg, and J.
Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 1573 (1990). * [18] D. Lopez, E. F.
Righi, G. Nieva, F. de la Cruz, W. K. Kwok, J. A. Fendric, and G. W.
Crabtree, Phys. Rev. B **53**, R8895 (1996); Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**,
1070 (1998); D. Lopez, L. Krusin-Elbaum, H. Safer, E. Righi, F. de la
Cruz, S. Grigera, C. Field, W. K. Kwok, L. Paulius, and G. W. Crabtree,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 1070 (1998). * [19] S. A. Grigera, E. Morre, E.
Osquiguil, C. Balseiro, G. Nieva, and F. de la Cruz, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**81**, 2348 (1998); A. Junod, M. Roulin, J.-Y. Genoud, B. Revaz, A.
Erb, and E. Walker, Physica C **275**, 245 (1997); W. K. Kwok, J.
Fendrich, V. M. Vinokur, A. E. Koshelev, and G. W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **76**, 4596 (1996).
