# Unconventional superconductivity in the cage-type compound Sc5Rh6Sn18

A. Bhattacharyya,^(1, 2, 3,) D. T. Adroja,^(1, 2,) N. Kase,⁴ A. D.
Hillier,¹ A. M. Strydom,^(2, 5) and J. Akimitsu⁶

¹ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton, Didcot Oxon
OX11 0QX, United Kingdom

²Highly Correlated Matter Research Group, Department of Physics,
University of Johannesburg, P.O. Box 524, Auckland Park 2006, South
Africa

³Department of Physics, Ramakrishna Mission Virekananda Educational and
Research Institute, Belur Math, Howrah 711202, West Bengal, India

⁴Department of Applied Physics, Tokyo University of Science, Tokyo
125-8585, Japan

⁵Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, D-01187 Dresden,
Germany

⁶Research Institute for Interdisciplinary Science, Okayama University,
Okayama 700-8530 Japan

###### Abstract

We have examined the superconducting ground-state properties of the
caged-type compound Sc5Rh6Sn18 using magnetization, heat capacity, and
muon-spin relaxation or rotation (μSR) measurements. Magnetization
measurements indicate type-II superconductivity with an upper critical
field of μ₀H₄₂(0) = 7.24 T. The zero-field-cooled and field-cooled
susceptibility measurements unveil the onset of a diamagnetic signal
below T_(ϵ) = 4.4 K. The interpretation of the heat-capacity results
below T_(ϵ) using the α-BCS model unveils the value of α = 2.65, which
gives the dimensionless ratio 2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(ϵ) = 5.3, intimating that
Sc5Rh6Sn18 is a strong-coupling BCS superconductor. The zero-field μSR
measurements in the longitudinal geometry exhibit a signature of the
spontaneous appearance of the internal magnetic field below the
superconducting transition temperature, indicating that the
superconducting state is characterized by the broken time-reversal
symmetry (TRS). We have compared the results of broken TRS in Sc5Rh6Sn18
with that observed in R_(δ)Rh6Sn18 (R = Lu and Y).

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.98.024511

## I Introduction

Unconventional behavior of superconductors beyond the conventional BCS
theory is a major focus area in theoretical and experimental communities
in condensed-matter physics [1,2]. BCS superconductors expel a magnetic
field through the Meissner effect. It is a very rare phenomenon for the
superconducting ground state to support an internal magnetic field,
which breaks the time-reversal symmetry (TRS). TRS-broken states were
previously suggested for the high-temperature superconductors [3], but
their identification remains experimentally debatable. A
symmetry-breaking field can modify the superconducting ground-state
properties and may result in novel unconventional superconductivity [4].
TRS breaking is rare and has only been observed directly in a few
unconventional superconductors, e.g., Sr2RuO4 [5,6], UPt3 [7],
(U;Th)Be13 [8], (Pr;La)(Os;Ru)4Sb12 [9], PrPt4Ge12 [10], LaNiC2 [11],
LaNiGa2 [12], and Re6Zr [13]. The presence of an internal magnetic field
places limitations on the pairing symmetry as well as on the possible
mechanism responsible for superconductivity.

In recent years, cage-type compounds, such as filled skutterudites
(RT₄X₁₂) [14] where R can be a rare-earth metal, T represents a
transition metal, and X represents pnictogen, β-pyrochlore oxides
(AOs2O6) [15] where A is an alkali metal, and Ge- or Si-filled
clathrates [16] have received much attention due to interesting aspects
of the crystal structure that impedes heat conductivity in a manner that
is considered to be beneficial to the design of novel thermoelectric
materials. From a different point of view, a small number of so-called
rattling materials among the cage-type structures also belong to the
class of strongly correlated electron systems, and these are known for a
rich variety of physics, such as heavy-fermion behavior, metal-insulator
transition, multipole ordering, and superconductivity. RT₄X₁₂ and RT₂X₂₀
exhibit a strong interplay between quadrupole moment and
superconductivity [17, 18, 19]. Zero-field muon-spin relaxation (ZF-μSR)
is a powerful tool to search for TRS-breaking fields or spontaneous
internal magnetic fields below T_(ϵ). The ZF-μSR measurements in
PrOs4Sb12 (which was claimed to be the first Pr-based heavy-fermion
superconductor [20]) have revealed an appreciable increase in the
internal magnetic field below the onset of superconductivity (T_(ϵ) =
1.82 K) [21]. The low-lying crystal-field excitations of Pr ions may be
playing a vital role in the superconductivity [21]. The caged-type
material PrV2Al20 is a rare example of a heavy-fermion superconductor
based on strong hybridization between conduction electrons and
nonmagnetic quadrupolar moments of the cubic Γ₃ ground doublet. PrV2Al20
exhibits superconductivity at T_(ϵ) = 50 mK in the
antiferroquadrupole-ordered state under ambient pressure [22]. In the
ordered state, the electronic heat-capacity C_(e) shows a T³ temperature
dependence, indicating the gapless mode associated with quadrupole
order, octupole order, or both. PrIr2Zn20 and PrRh2Zn20 compounds
exhibit non-Fermi-liquid behavior in their resistivity and heat capacity
and quadrupole ordering at low temperatures [18].

R₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ (R = Sc, Y, and Lu) compounds, having the caged-type crystal
structure also exhibit superconductivity (SC) [23] below $T_{\rm c}$ =
4.4 K (Sc), 3 K (Y), and 4 K (Lu). These compounds have tetragonal
structures with the space-group I4₁/acd and rare-earth element
coordination Z = 8 and where R occupies two different crystallographic
sites [24]. The crystal structure is similar to the skutterudite
structure [20]. Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈ is a conventional BCS-type superconductor
[25]. The gap structure of Y₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ is found to be strongly anisotropic
as revealed from the heat-capacity measurements; $C_{\rm c}(T)$ exhibits
a T³ variation, and $C_{\rm P}(H)$, where H is the applied magnetic
field indicates a $\sqrt{H}$-like dependence [25]. The superconducting
properties of Y₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ thus have a similarity with those of the
anisotropic s-wave superconductor YNi₂B₂C except for the difference in
$T_{\rm c}$[25]. Zero-field, transverse-field, and longitudinal-field
muon-spin relaxation measurements on Y₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ have been reported by our
group [26]. For Lu and Y compounds, the resistivity ρ(T) exhibits an
unusual temperature variation. In the Lu compound ρ(T) is nearly
constant down to 120 K and shows an increase on further cooling. For the
Y compound ρ continuously increases on cooling below room temperature
with a kink appearing at about 120 K. Coexistence of superconductivity
and magnetism was observed in the Tm-based reentrant superconductor
Tm₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ ($T_{\rm c}$ = 2.2 K) [27, 28].

We have recently reported superconducting properties of the caged-type
compounds (Lu, Y₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ using magnetization, heat-capacity, and μSR
measurements [26, 29]. Zero-field μSR measurements reveal the
spontaneous appearance of an internal magnetic field below the
superconducting transition temperature, which indicates that the
superconducting state in these materials is characterized by broken
time-reversal symmetry [29]. It is interesting to note that the
electronic heat capacity ($C_{\rm c}$) of Lu₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ exhibits
exponential behavior as a function of temperature below $T_{\rm c}$[30,
31]. From a series of experiments on R₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ (R = Lu, Sc, Y, and Tm),
it was concluded that the gap structure is strongly dependent on the R
atom, whose origin is left to be clarified [27, 28]. In this paper, we
address these matters by ZF-μSR measurements for the Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ system.
The results unambiguously reveal the spontaneous appearance of an
internal magnetic field in the SC state, providing clear evidence for
broken time-reversal symmetry and suggesting a common origin in this
family of compounds.

## II Experimental details

The single crystals of Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ were grown by dissolving the
constituent elements in an excess of Sn flux in the ratio of Sc:Rh:Sn =
1:2:20. The quartz tube was heated up to 1050 ^(∘)C, maintained at this
temperature for about 3 h, and cooled down to 200 ^(∘)C at a rate of 5
^(∘)C/h, taking 7 days in total. The excess flux was removed from the
crystals by spinning the ampoule in a centrifuge [23]. Laue patterns
were recorded using a Huber-Laue diffractometer, and well-defined Laue
diffraction spots indicate the high quality of the single crystals. The
phase purity was inferred from the powder x-ray patterns which were
indexed as the Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ phase with the space-group [23]I4₁/acd. The
magnetization data were collected using a Quantum Design superconducting
quantum interference device. The heat-capacity measurements were
performed down to 500 mK using a Quantum Design physical properties
measurement system equipped with a ³He refrigerator.

We further employed the μSR technique to investigate the superconducting
ground state. The μSR measurements were performed at the MUSR
spectrometer at the ISIS Neutron and Muon Facility located at the STFC
Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (United Kingdom). The single crystals
(typical size of 3 x 3 x 3 mm³) were mounted on a high-purity silver
plate (99.995

## III Results and discussions

The bulk nature of superconductivity in Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ was confirmed by the
magnetic susceptibility χ(T) as shown in Fig. 1(a). The low-field χ(T)
measurements display a strong diamagnetic signal due to the
superconducting transition at $T_{\rm c}$ = 4.4 K. Figure 1(b) shows the
magnetization M(H) at 2 and at 3 K with a shape that is typical for
type-II superconductivity. The electrical resistivity (not shown)
exhibits bulk superconductivity at 4.4 K [30, 31].

Figure 2(a) shows C_(P)(T)/T vs T² in field values of H = 0 and 7.5 T.
At 4.4 K a sharp anomaly is observed indicating the superconducting
transition which matches well with χ(T) data. Since the normal-state
heat capacity was found to be invariant under external magnetic fields,
the normal-state electronic heat-capacity coefficient γ and the lattice
heat-capacity coefficient β were deduced from the data in a field of 7.5
T where the superconductivity is completely suppressed using a
least-squares fit of the C_(P)(T)/T data to C_(P)(T)/T = γ + βT² + δT⁴.
The least-squares analysis of the 7.5-T data provides a Sommerfeld
constant γ = 51.10 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻², β = 0.13 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻⁴, δ = 0.32 mJ
mol⁻¹ K⁻⁶, and from this value of β we have estimated the Debye
temperature of Θ_(D) = 271 K [30, 31]. We have analyzed the electronic
heat-capacity data (below $T_{\rm c}$) using a T³ model and the
single-band α model that was adapted from the single-band BCS theory to
fit the heat-capacity data that deviate from the BCS prediction [33,
34]. The red and blue solid lines in Fig. 2(b) demonstrate a theoretical
fit based upon the α model and T³ model. In the α model it was assumed
that the normalized gap amplitude Δ(T)/Δ(0) follows the isotropic s-wave
BCS result with $\alpha=\Delta(0)/k_{B}T_{\rm c}$ being an

adjustable parameter [30, 31]. The α model is an excellent fit to the
electronic heat-capacity data of Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ below T_(c) with α = 2.65,
which is significantly larger than the value for the weak-coupling BCS
value of 1.76. All of these results suggest that Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ is a
strong-coupling superconductor with the value of 2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 5.3.
The Ginzburg-Landau (GL) coherence length ξ(0) and the GL parameter
κ(0) = λ(0)/ξ(0) can be obtained from the upper critical field
H_(c2)(0), the lower critical field H_(c1)(0), and H_(c)(0) using the
following equations: μ₀H_(c2)(0) = Φ₀/2π ξ(0)²,
H_(c1)(0) = H_(c)(0)²/H_(c2)(0)[ln  κ(0) + 0.08],
$H_{c}(0)=H_{c2}(0)/\sqrt{2}\kappa(0)$. From these, λ(0) and ξ(0) are
estimated to be approximately 34.2 and 6.74 nm, respectively. In
addition, κ(0) is calculated to be 51.7. Because κ is larger than
$1/\sqrt{2}$, Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ is a type-II superconductor.

Figure 3 shows the time evolution of the zero-field muon-spin relaxation
asymmetry in Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ at temperatures above and below T_(c). Below
T_(c), we observed that the muon-spin relaxation became faster with
decreasing temperature down to lowest temperature, which indicates the
appearance of a spontaneous magnetic field in the superconducting phase.
We note that there is no signature of muon-spin precession that would
accompany a sufficiently large internal magnetic field produced by
ordering of electronic moments. The ZF-μSR spectra for Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ can be
well described by the damped Gaussian Kubo-Toyabe (K-T) function [35,
36, 37, 38],

G_(z2)(t) = A₀G_(K ⋅ T)(t)e^(−λt) + A_(bg),
(1)

where

$$G_{K\cdot T}(t)=\left[\tfrac{1}{3}+\tfrac{2}{3}\big{(}1-\sigma_{K\cdot T}^{2} t^{2}\big{)}e^{(-\sigma_{K\cdot T}^{2}t^{2})}\right]$$
(2)

is the K-T functional form expected from an isotropic Gaussian
distribution of randomly oriented static (or quasistatic) local fields
at muon sites. λ is the electronic relaxation rate, A₀ is the initial
asymmetry, and A_(bg) is the background arising from the muons stopping
on the silver sample holder. A₀ and A_(bg) are all found to be
temperature independent. First we estimated the value of the Kubo-Toyabe
depolarization rate σ_(K ⋅ T) by fitting the data at the lowest
temperature and then kept this value fixed for fitting other temperature
data points as shown in Fig. 4(b) for the ZF-μSR fitting as there is
negligible variation with temperature in σ_(K ⋅ T) within the error
bars.

Figure 4(a) shows the temperature dependence of the electronic
relaxation rate. It is remarkable that λ shows a

Figure 2: (a) C_(P)/T vs T² in two different applied magnetic-field
values. The solid line shows a fit to the H = 7.5-T data (see the text)
where T_(c) is suppressed to far below the shown temperature range of
measurement. (b) Temperature dependence of electronic heat-capacity
C_(c) under a zero field after subtracting the lattice contribution for
Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈.

Figure 1: (a) Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility of
Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ under magnetic fields of 50, 100, and 200 G in the
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) states. (b) Isothermal
field dependence of magnetization at 2 and 3 K.

significant increase below an onset temperature of 4.4 ± 0.1 K, but
σ_(K-T) is temperature independent [see Fig. 4 (b)], indicating the
appearance of a spontaneous internal field correlated with the
superconductivity. This observation provides unambiguous evidence that
TRS is broken in the SC state of Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈. Such a change in λ has only
been observed in superconducting URu₂Si₂[39], Sr₂RuO₄[5], LaNiC₂[11],
(Lu,Y)₅Rh₆Sn₁₈[29], and SrPtAs [40]. This increase in λ can be explained
by the presence of a very small internal field as discussed by Luke _et
al._[5] for Sr₂RuO₄. This suggests that the field distribution is
Lorentzian in nature similar to the case of Sr₂RuO₄. Considering a
similar temperature dependence of λ in Sr₂RuO₄, LaNiC₂, SrPtAs,
Lu₅Rh₆Sn₁₈, and Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈, we attribute this behavior of λ to TRS
breaking below T_(c) in Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈. It is to be noted that for Y₅Rh₆Sn₁₈
the onset of a TRS-breaking [29] field appears in λ(T) below 2 K which
is well below T_(c) = 3.0 K. The increase in the exponential relaxation
below T_(c) in Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ is 0.0214 μs⁻¹, which corresponds to a
characteristic field strength of λ/γ_(μ) = 0.25 G, where γ_(μ) is the
muon gyromagnetic ratio equal to 2π × 135.5 MHz/T. This is about half
the value that was observed in the case of Lu₅Rh₆Sn₁₈, in the B phase of
UPt₃ and in Sr₂RuO₄[7]. No theoretical estimates of the characteristic
field strength in Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ are yet available; however, we expect it to
be comparable to those in Sr₂RuO₄ and UPt₃ as the fields are expected to
arise from a similar mechanism. On the other hand, the TRS-breaking
field appears in σ_(K-T)(T) in LaNiGa₂[12] and in PrOs₄Sb₁₂[9].
Comparison of superconducting parameters of R₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ [R = Sc, Lu, and
Y] compounds with other TRS-breaking superconductors is shown in Table
1.

Our theoretical analysis [2, 26, 46] for the isostructural compound
Lu₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ was carried out under the assumption of strong spin-orbit
coupling and revealed two possible superconducting pairing states. The
first one has singlet d + id character, and the second one has triplet
nonunitarity character. Far below the superconducting temperature of
T ≪ T_(c), the thermodynamics of the singlet state would be influenced
by a line node, which suggests a quadratic temperature dependence of the
heat capacity. Furthermore, the triplet state [46] would be influenced
by point nodes, which happen to be shallow (a result protected by
symmetry) and therefore also lead to quadratic temperature variation of
the heat capacity. Nevertheless, because of the location of the nodes in
the triplet case, fully gapped behavior may be recovered depending on
the topology of the Fermi surface. In addition some limiting cases of
the triplet state correspond to regular, i.e., linear point nodes (cubic
temperature dependence of the heat capacity) as well as to a more exotic
state with a nodal surface (gapless superconductivity, linear
temperature variation of the heat capacity). We note that the
theoretical analysis presented in the Supplemental Material of Ref. [26]
is valid for any superconductor with D_(4h) point-group symmetry in the
presence of strong spin-orbit coupling and broken time-reversal symmetry
and may therefore be applied, for example, to Sr₂RuO₄[47] as well as to
Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈.

## IV Conclusions

To summarize, we have investigated the nature of the superconducting
ground state in Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ by using ZF-μSR measurements. Below
T_(c) = 4.4 K, the ZF-μSR

Figure 4: (a) Temperature dependence of the electronic relaxation rate
measured in a zero magnetic field of Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ with T_(c) = 4.4 K. The
lines are guides to the eye. The relaxation is near zero above T_(c) but
rises decisively from right at T_(c) which indicates the presence of an
internal magnetic field and, consequently, suggests the superconducting
state has broken time-reversal symmetry. (b) The Kubo-Toyabe
depolarization rate σ_(K-T) vs temperature in the zero field shows no
temperature dependence.

Figure 3: Zero-field μSR time spectra for Sc₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ collected at 1.2 K
(squares) and 8.0 K (circles) are shown together with lines that are
least-squares fits to the data using Eq. (1). These spectra collected
below and above T_(c) are representative of the data collected over a
range of temperatures.

measurements revealed the onset of an appreciable internal magnetic
field that is correlated exactly with the onset of superconductivity in
this compound. The appearance of spontaneous magnetic fields in our
ZF-μSR results provide unambiguous evidence for TRS breaking in this
material and an unconventional pairing mechanism. The evidence of broken
TRS in the SC state will help to narrow down the number of possibilities
for the symmetry of the SC order parameter. Symmetry analysis suggests
either a singlet d + id state with a line node or, alternatively,
nonunitary triplet pairing with point nodes, which may be linear or
shallow and can become fully gapped depending on the Fermi-surface
topology. It is hoped that our experimental results presented in this
paper will stimulate theoretical interest to understand the
unconventional superconductivity in cage-type superconductors as well as
to understand the origin of a TRS-breaking field in either the
electronic/λ(T) or the nuclear/σ_(K ⋅ T)(T) channel.

###### Acknowledgements.

We would like to thank J. Quintanilla for interesting theoretical
discussions. A.B. would like to acknowledge DST India for an Inspire
Faculty Research Grant, FRC of UJ, NRF of South Africa, and ISIS-STFC
for funding support. D.T.A. and A.D.H. would like to thank CMPC-STFC
Grant No. CMPC-09108 and DIST for financial support. D.T.A. thanks JSPS
for an invitation fellowship. A.M.S. thanks the SA-NRF (Grant No. 93549)
and the UJ Research Committee for financial support.

## References

* [1] J. Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev.
**108**, 1175 (1957). * [2] M. Sigrist and K. Ueda, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**63**, 239 (1991). * [3] M. Hakansson, T. Lofwander, and M. Fogelstrom,
Nat. Phys. **11**, 755 (2015). * [4] J. Schaibley and X. Xu, Nat. Phys.
**10**, 798 (2014). * [5] G. M. Luke, Y. Fudamoto, K. M. Kojima, M. I.
Larkin, J. Merrin, B. Nachumi, Y. J. Uemura, Y. Maeno, Z. Q. Mao, Y.
Mori _et al._, Nature (London) **394**, 558 (1998). * [6] J. Xia, Y.
Maeno, P. T. Beyersdorf, M. M. Fejer, and A. Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **97**, 167002 (2006). * [7] G. M. Luke, A. Keren, L. P. Le, W. D.
Wu, Y. J. Uemura, D. A. Bonn, L. Taillefer, and J. D. Garrett, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **71**, 1466 (1993). * [8] R. H. Heffner, J. L. Smith, J. O.
Willis, P. Birrer, C. Baines, F. N. Gygax, B. Hitti, E. Lippelt, H. R.
Ott, A. Schenck _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 2816 (1990). * [9] Y.
Aoki, A. Tsuchiya, T. Kanayama, S. R. Saha, H. Sugawara, H. Sato, W.
Higemoto, A. Koda, K. Ohishi, K. Nishiyama _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**91**, 067003 (2003). * [10] A. Anisuradze, W. Schnelle, R. Khasanov,
R. Gumeniuk, M. Nicklas, H. Rosner, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, A. Amato,
and P. Thalmeier, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024524 (2010). * [11] A. D.
Hillier, J. Quintanilla, and R. Cywinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**,
117007 (2009). * [12] A. D. Hillier, J. Quintanilla, B. Mazidian, J. F.
Annett, and R. Cywinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 097001 (2012). * [13]
R. P. Singh, A. D. Hillier, B. Mazidian, J. Quintanilla, J. F. Annett,
D. M. Paul, G. Balakrishnan, and M. R. Lees, Phys. Rev. Lett. **112**,
107002 (2014). * [14] X. Shi, J. Yang, J. R. Salvador, M. Chi, J. Y.
Cho, H. Wang, S. Bai, J. Yang, W. Zhang, and L. Chen, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**133**, 7837 (2011). * [15] Z. Hiroi, J. Yamaura, and K. Hattori, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 011012 (2012). * [16] X. Yan, E. Bauer, P. Rogl,
and S. Paschen, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 115206 (2013). * [17] K. Kuwahara,
K. Iwasa, M. Kohgi, K. Kaneko, N. Metoki, S. Raymond, M.-A. Measson, J.
Flouquet, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**,
107003 (2005). * [18] T. Onimaru, K. T. Matsumoto, Y. F. Inoue, K. Umeo,
T. Sakakibara, Y. Karaki, M. Kubota, and T. Takabatake, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**106**, 177001 (2011). * [19] T. Onimaru and H. Kusunose, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **85**, 082002 (2016). * [20] E. D. Bauer, N. A. Frederick, P. C.
Ho, V. S. Zapf, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 100506(R)
(2002). * [21] M. Koga, M. Matsumoto, and H. Shiba, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**75**, 014709 (2006). * [22] M. Tsujimoto, Y. Matsumoto, T. Tomita, A.
Sakai, and S. Nakatsuji, Phys. Rev. Lett. **113**, 267001 (2014). * [23]
J. P. Remeika, G. P. Espinosa, A. S. Cooper, H. Barz, Z. Fisk, L. D.
Woolf, H. C. Hamaker, M. B. Maple, G. Shirane, and W. Thomlinson, Solid
State Commun. **34**, 923 (1980).

  ------------------ ------------ ----------- -------------------- --------------- ---------------
  Compounds           H_(c2) (T)   T_(e) (K)   Gap to T_(e) ratio                  
  Sc_(s)Rh_(d)Sn₁₈       7.24         4.4             5.3                0.6         s wave^(a)
  Lu_(s)Rh_(d)Sn₁₈       6.45         4.0             4.28               0.5         s wave [26]
  Y_(s)Rh_(d)Sn₁₈        3.13         3.0             4.23              0.02         s wave [29]
  PrOs_(d)Sb₁₂           2.2          1.8             3.7                1.2        s/p wave [44]
  UPt₃                   1.9         0.52             2.0           0.1 (B phase)   p/f wave [42]
  Sr₂RuO₄             1.5 (H/c)       1.5             3.5                0.5         d wave [43]
  ------------------ ------------ ----------- -------------------- --------------- ---------------

^(a)From heat-capacity analysis.

Table 1: Comparison of superconducting parameters of R₃Rh₆Sn₁₈ [R = Sc,
Lu, and Y] compounds [26, 29] with other TRS-breaking superconductors
[41, 44, 45].

* [24] S. Miraglia, J. L. Hodeau, F. Bergevin, and M. Marezio, Acta
Crystallogr. Sect. B: Struct. Sci. **43**, 76 (1987). * [25] N. Kase, K.
Inoue, H. Hayamizu, and J. Akimitsu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**, SA112
(2011). * [26] A. Bhattacharyya, D. T. Adroja, J. Quintanilla, A. D.
Hillier, N. Kase, A. M. Strydom, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. B **91**,
060503 (2015). * [27] A. Rojek, C. Sulkowski, and K. Rogacki, Physica C
**223**, 111 (1994). * [28] N. Kase, J. Akimitsu, Y. Ishii, T. Suzuki,
I. Watanabe, M. Miyazaki, M. Hiraishi, S. Takeshita, and R. Kadono, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 7 (2009). * [29] A. Bhattacharyya, D. T. Adroja,
A. D. Hillier, N. Kase, J. Akimitsu, and A. M. Strydom, Sci. Rep. **5**,
12926 (2015). * [30] N. Kase, S. Kittaka, T. Sakakibara, and J.
Akimitsu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, SB016 (2012). * [31] N. Kase, S.
Kittaka, T. Sakakibara, and J. Akimitsu, _Proceedings of the
International Conference on Strongly Correlated Electron Systems
(SCES2013), Tokyo, 2013_ (The Physical Society of Japan, Tokyo, 2014),
p. 015042. * [32] F. L. Pratt, Physica B **289-290**, 710 (2000). * [33]
D. C. Johnston, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **26**, 115011 (2013). * [34]
H. Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor, and C. A. Shiffman, J. Low Temp. Phys.
**12**, 387 (1973). * [35] D. Adroja, A. Bhattacharyya, P. K. Biswas, M.
Smidman, A. D. Hillier, H. Mao, H. Luo, G.-H. Cao, Z. Wang, and C. Wang,
Phys. Rev. B **96**, 144502 (2017). * [36] D. T. Adroja, A.
Bhattacharyya, M. Telling, Y. Feng, M. Smidman, B. Pan, J. Zhao, A. D.
Hillier, F. L. Pratt, and A. M. Strydom, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 134505
(2015). * [37] D. Adroja, A. Bhattacharyya, M. Smidman, A. Hillier, Y.
Feng, B. Pan, J. Zhao, M. R. Lees, A. Strydom, and P. K. Biswas, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **86**, 044710 (2017). * [38] A. Bhattacharyya, D. T.
Adroja, A. D. Hillier, R. Jha, V. P. S. Awana, and A. M. Strydom, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **29**, 265602 (2017). * [39] E. R. Schemm, R. E.
Baumbach, P. H. Tobash, F. Ronning, E. D. Bauer, and A. Kapitulnik,
Phys. Rev. B **91**, 140506(R) (2015). * [40] P. K. Biswas, H. Luetkens,
T. Neupert, T. Sturzer, C. Baines, G. Pascua, A. P. Schnyder, M. H.
Fischer, J. Goryo, M. R. Lees, H. Maeter, F. Bruckner, H.-H. Klauss, M.
Nicklas, P. J. Baker, A. D. Hillier, M. Sigrist, A. Amato, and D.
Johrendt, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 180503(R) (2013). * [41] Y. Aoki, T.
Tayama, T. Sakakibara, K. Kuwahara, K. Iwasa, M. Kohgi, W. Higemoto, D.
E. Maclaughlin, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**,
051006 (2007). * [42] C. Broholm, G. Aeppli, R. N. Kleiman, D. R.
Harshman, D. J. Bishop, E. Bucher, D. Ll. Williams, E. J. Ansaldo, and
R. H. Heffner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 2062 (1990). * [43] I. A. Firmo,
S. Lederer, C. Lupien, A. P. Mackenzie, J. C. Davis, and S. A. Kivelson,
Phys. Rev. B **88**, 134521 (2013). * [44] D. E. MacLaughlin, J. E.
Sonier, R. H. Heffner, O. O. Bernal, B.-L. Young, M. S. Rose, G. D.
Morris, E. D. Bauer, T. D. Do, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**,
157001 (2002). * [45] H. Suderow, S. Vieira, J. D. Strand, S. Bud’ko,
and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 060504(R) (2004). * [46] B.
Mazidian, J. Quintanilla, A. D. Hillier, and J. F. Annett, Phys. Rev. B
**88**, 224504 (2013). * [47] C. N. Veenstra, Z.-H. Zhu, M. Raichle, B.
M. Ludbrook, A. Nicolaou, B. Slomski, G. Landolt, S. Kittaka, Y. Maeno,
J. H. Dil, I. S. Elfimov, M. W. Haverkort, A. Damascelli _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **112**, 127002 (2014).
