# Infrared studies of the superconducting energy gap and normal-state
dynamics

of the high-T_(c) superconductor YBa₂Cu₃O₇

Z. Schlesinger, R. T. Collins, F. Holtzberg, C. Feild, G. Koren, and A.
Gupta

IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, New York 10598

###### Abstract

A detailed study of infrared properties (reflectivity, conductivity, and
dielectric response), emphasizing reproducible results from fully
oxygenated YBa₂Cu₃O₇ crystals (T_(c) = 93 K) and films, is presented.
The extrapolated values of σ₁(ω) at low frequency are roughly consistent
with the measured temperature-dependent dc resistivity. Although not
well understood, this infrared conductivity can be interpreted in terms
of a frequency-dependent scattering rate of ∼_kT_ + _tio_, with a
low-frequency mass enhancement of roughly 2 to 4 associated with a
carrier-spin related interaction. Infrared measurements polarized along
the c axis suggest a conductivity anisotropy of roughly 40:1 near T_(c)
in the normal state. In the superconducting state an energy scale of
2D_(c) ≃ 3_kT__(c) is suggested by c-axis polarized measurements, while
a much larger characteristic energy of 2D_(a+ ∞) ≃ 8_kT__(c) is evident
in the (a-b)-plane conductivity. From the area missing from the
conductivity up to this very large gap, a reasonable estimate (≃ 1700 A)
for the (a-b)-plane penetration depth is obtained. Evidence for non-BCS
temperature dependence, strong pair breaking scattering, and possible
fluctuation effects is discussed. A comparison to infrared data from
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₃O_(8 − y) shows a similarly large energy scale, 2D_(a, ∞) ≃
8_kT__(c); for the cubic Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃ superconductor a more
conventional energy scale, 2D≃ 4_kT__(c) is observed. The unusually
large energy scale obtained from the (a-b)-plane measurements of the
layered cuprates lies far beyond the range of previously studied
superconducting energy gaps (2D≃ 3 to 5_kT__(c)).

## I Introduction

In the phenomenology of superconductivity, the energy gap, or, more
generally, the spectrum of excitations in the superconducting state,
plays a central role. Because of the fundamental relationship between
the gap and the density of thermally excited quasiparticles in the
superconducting state, knowledge of the symmetry, temperature
dependence, and magnitude of the gap is generally sufficient to explain
the behavior of the specific heat, nuclear relaxation, penetration
depth, microwave absorption, and other low-energy properties in the
superconducting state. Beginning with the pioneering work of Glover and
Tinkham [1] and of Giaver, [2] both infrared [3]⁻[7] and tunnelling
spectroscopies [8] have provided the most fundamental and versatile
probes of the superconducting energy gap. Tunneling probes the
single-particle density of states, which is gapped at Δ in a
conventional superconductor; while infrared measures the conductivity,
which has a gap at the threshold for pair excitations, 2D. In the oxides
tunneling is more difficult than in conventional superconductors due
both to the short coherence length, and the difficulty of preparing
well-characterized junctions at oxide surfaces. Infrared measurements,
on the other hand, probe more deeply than tunnelling (≃ 1500 A), and
actually become significantly less difficult as the frequency range of
interest, which tends to scale with T_(c), becomes higher. In this
article we present infrared measurements of the recently discovered
high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors [9]^(,)[10] and discuss their
implications regarding the nature of the excitation spectrum in both the
superconducting and normal states. Work on the fully oxygenated
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is emphasized since it is with this stoichiometric compound
that we obtain our most reproducible results.

Infrared measurements on the layered cuprates began with studies of
ceramic samples [11]⁻[24] in which the presence of a large, uncontrolled
anisotropy was extremely problematic. These measurements were later
essentially superseded by studies of crystalline materials [15]⁻[39] in
which the response associated with the in-plane and out-of-plane
directions could be clearly identified. In the following discussion a
brief review of the use of infrared measurements to address the nature
of the superconducting energy gap and the normal-state dynamics in the
layered cuprates is presented.

From the infrared data on ceramics, estimates of a reduced energy gap in
the range 2DΔ/kT_(c) ≃ 2 to 3.5 were widely reported (see Refs.
[11]⁻[17]). At that time one of the puzzles associated with the
high-T_(c) field was why the infrared gap appeared to be small compared
both to the BCS value (3.5_kT__(c)), and estimates of the gap based on
tunnelling (see Refs. [14] and [22]). Based on very elementary
considerations associated with the normal-state conductivity anisotropy,
we proposed that the infrared gap measurement on unoriented
polycrystalline samples should be dominated by contributions with the
electric field perpendicular to the Cu-O plane, and quite insensi tive
to the (_a-b_)-plane gap.[22] Recent _c_-axis polarized measurements on
both YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (Ref. [36]) and La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (Ref. [39]) are
quite consistent with this proposal, as discussed in Sec. III.5 of this
article.

In the first infrared measurement of crystalline YBa₂Cu₃O₇,[25] both the
absolute (_a-b_)-plane reflectivity at room temperature, and the ratio
of the reflectivity in the superconducting state to that in the normal
state (_R__x_/_R__n_) were reported. Based on the reflectivity ratio,
which exhibits a peak at about 500 cm⁻¹ (≃720 K), an energy gap of
∼8_kT__c_ was inferred for the _a-b_ plane.[25, 28] These reflectivity
ratios, and hence the assignment of the gap energy, appear to have been
quite accurate and are in good agreement with subsequent work. The high
degree of reproducibility of the ratio measurement is due to the fact
that only relative accuracy is required. The absolute reflectivities
reported in the early studies,[25, 28] were too low due to our inability
to calibrate the absolute reflectivity accurately (i.e., establish what
is 100

As noted above, the original inference of the 2D_(α − b) ≃ 8kT_(c) gap
was based on the measurement of the ratio, _R__s_/_R__n_, of the
reflectivity in the superconducting state to that in the normal
state.[25] The emphasis on ratios over absolute quantities in infrared
gap measurements dates to the work of Glover and Tinkham.[1] Virtually
all subsequent infrared gap measurements (see Refs. [3-7]) have also
used ratios of superconducting and normal-state properties to determine
the energy of the gap, and have not attempted to show directly that the
absorption below the gap vanishes in the superconducting state as the
temperature (_T_) goes to 0. Recently it has been proposed that the
correct way to extract a superconducting gap from infrared data is to
establish the frequency at which the reflectivity first deviates from
100

Regarding the possibility of a BCS size gap in the layered
copper-oxides, our results from YBa₂Cu₃O₇ show little evidence for this
in either the reflectivity ratios or the absolute reflectivity of the
_a-b_ plane. We find it very difficult to determine a specific frequency
at which the absolute (_a-b_)-plane reflectivity reaches 100

We note that some of the recent discussions regarding the inference of a
gap energy from infrared measurements, parallel an earlier controversy
that followed the original report of a superconducting energy gap in
Pb.[1, 40, 41] Recent statement to the effect that infrared measurements
cannot be interpreted as evidence for a superconducting gap in the
cuprates, are closely related to arguments advanced earlier by
Forrester[40] and responded to by Tinkham and Glover.[41]

Turning now to the normal state, infrared reflectivity data from ceramic
samples were originally analyzed in a way that gave a strong excitonic
feature in the infrared conductivity at about 0.4 eV.[18, 19, 20] It has
been subsequently argued that this excitonic peak was an artifact
associated with an incomplete treatment of anisotropy in the
polycrystalline data analysis.[22, 23] We find these arguments to be
compelling. Infrared measurements on La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (Ref. [27])
and YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (Refs. [25] and [26]) crystals show substantial
conductivity extending into the mid-infrared range (∼0.5 eV), but no
sharp excitonic peak in σ₁(ω) as reported for the ceramics (Refs. [18,
20]).

Early efforts to fit the room temperature (_a-b_)-plane reflectivity to
a Drude model required a very large scattering rate,[25, 26, 27] which,
as pointed out by Kamaras _et al._,[24] would imply an unrealistically
short mean-free path, and does not allow a reasonable explanation of the
temperature dependence of the dc conductivity. The behavior of the dc
conductivity and the far-infrared conductivity are, of course,
fundamentally connected. In fact, the problem of understanding the
temperature dependence of the dc conductivity is subsumed by the larger
problem of understanding the temperature and frequency dependence of the
infrared conductivity, which are themselves interrelated. Infrared
measurements have explored these relationships, revealing a highly
temperature- and frequency-dependent, low-frequency infrared
conductivity.[29, 30, 31] Extrapolations of the infrared conductivity to
o =0 give values in reasonable correspondence with dc results. At finite
ω the infrared conductivity falls much less rapidly with frequency than
would be expected for an ordinary metal.[29, 30, 31] Attempts to
understand the conductivity have been based on both spin interaction[30,
31] and charge excitation pictures,[29] as discussed in Sec. IV.1. In
the former case the carriers are dressed by spin-related excitations,
resulting in a reduced scattering rate and an enhanced mass at low
frequency. In the latter case the free-carrier contribution to σ(ω) is
supplemented by a strong mid-infrared charge excitation.

Most of the infrared data addressing these questions is from YBa₂Cu₃O₇
crystals, which, in addition to the CuO₂ planes, contain CuO chains
oriented along the b direction. Presumably the chains are inessential to
the superconductivity and it is the CuO₂-plane response that is of major
interest; however, the high-T_(c) crystals tend to be heavily twinned in
the a-b plane, hence it is not easy to separate the chain and plane
contributions to σ(ω). This uncertainty in the origin of σ(ω)
contributes to the ambiguity in the analysis of the normal-state
dynamics, as discussed in Sec. IV.1. The extent to which the chains
actually contribute to the conductivity in the infrared is not well
known, however, recent polarized measurements on small untwinned
crystals suggest a large chain-related contribution [37] to σ(ω), which
could account for some of the broad background conductivity observed in
infrared measurements. Definitively separating the conductivity of
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ into chain and plane contributions is an important goal of
future work.

In spite of these uncertainties associated with its complex structure,
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ has been the system of choice for infrared studies. YBa₂Cu₃O₇
is the only known stoichiometric high-T_(c) superconductor, and is the
material for which the best crystals and films have been available.
Flux-grown crystals and laser ablation films of the fully oxygenated
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ have optically smooth surfaces and appear to have a high
degree of electronic homogeneity (as evidenced, for example, by the very
large and sharp specific-heat jump at T_(c) seen in the YBa₂Cu₃O₇
crystals [42, 43, 44]. Both of these properties are crucially important
for reliable infrared measurements.

In this article we examine the infrared reflectivity and conductivity of
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ in both the normal and superconducting states. We primarily
emphasize data from the fully-oxygenated YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (T_(c) ≃ 92 K),
although some comparison is made to data from reduced-T_(c)
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) crystals, as well as Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 − y) and
Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃. We find that there is very good reproducibility in
the absolute reflectivities and conductivities for the fully oxygenated
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (T_(c) ≳ 92 K), as well as in the reflectivity ratios
(R_(s)/R_(n)), and show that the important energy scale for the a-b
plane is 500 cm⁻¹ (≃ 700 K ≃ 8kT_(c)). The correspondence between our
infrared data and the measured low-temperature penetration depth [45,
46] is demonstrated by calculating the penetration depth from the area
missing from the superconducting state conductivity up to above ≃
8kT_(c). The unconventional temperature dependence of this 8kT_(c)
gamlike feature, as well as possible evidence for unusual fluctuation
effects in the infrared conductivity above T_(c) are discussed in Sec.
IV.2. We also consider the possibility of a smaller gap (as suggested
based on results from O deficient material) but conclude that there is
very little evidence for this in the (a-b)-plane reflectivity of
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ at the present time. Results from other gap sensitive probes,
including specific heat, [42, 43, 44] tunneling, [47, 48, 49, 50, 51,
52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57] photoelectron spectroscopy, [58, 59, 60, 61, 62]
Raman scattering, [63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69] and nuclear resonance,
[63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69] are discussed in Sec. IV.2.6. For the most
part, results from these techniques are consistent with the very large
gap we have reported from infrared measurements. [25, 36] In Sec. V, we
compare the infrared results for YBa₂Cu₃O₇ to the analogous results from
the cubic Bi-O superconductor, Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃. [70] The ratio of
the reflectivity in the superconducting state to that in the normal
state for each of these oxide superconductors is presented in Fig. 1.
This measured ratio, R_(s)/R_(n), is qualitatively very similar for
these two systems, however, the same analysis applied to both sets of
data leads to the inference of a conventional energy scale (2Δ ≃
4kT_(c)) for Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃, and a very unconventional energy
scale, (2Δ_(a-b) ≃ 8kT_(c)), for the a-b plane of YBa₂Cu₃O₇.

## II Experimental Procedures

### Sample preparation

The highly anisotropic structural and transport properties of the Cu-O
superconductors make oriented samples a necessity in infrared studies of
these materials. In this paper we discuss results from both crystalline
samples and oriented thin films of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x), emphasizing results
from fully oxygenated YBa₂Cu₃O₇ samples. The crystals were grown from a
flux as previously described. [71] Following growth, they were annealed
for 10 days at 420 degC in flowing oxygen after which they consistently
exhibited extremely sharp superconducting transitions with widths less
than 0.3 K and T_(c) ≃ 93 K as measured by ac susceptibility and shown
in Fig. 2(a). In general, the crystals were highly twinned
[predominantly

Figure 1: Ratio of the reflectivity in the superconducting state to that
in the normal state is shown for Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃ and for (the a-b
plane of) YBa₂Cu₃O₇. R_(s)/R_(s) is plotted as a function of energy in
units of kT_(c), where T_(c) = 29 K for the Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃, and
T_(c) = 92 K for the YBa₂Cu₃O₇. From the frequency of the peak in each
plot, reduced energy scales of 2Δ ≃ 4kT_(c) and 2Δ_(a-b) ≃ 8kT_(c) are,
respectively, inferred. (The structure at about 18kT_(c) in the dashed
curve has an instrumental origin.)

along (110) boundaries] within the _a-b_ plane. Their geometry was
platelike with typical dimensions of 1-2 mm along the a and b axis and
50 μm along the c axis. The (_a-b_)-plane measurements were made on
individual crystals. Both "_as_-annealed" sample surfaces and surfaces
which were mechanically polished with diamond paste to an 0.5 μm grid
size were studied. As discussed below, polishing did not have a
measurable effect on the infrared properties of the surface. This is
presumably related to the deep penetration depth for infrared radiation
( 1500 A) in YBa2Cu3O7.

To obtain sufficient area for measurements with the electric field along
the c axis, a stack of ≃ 12 crystals was used. The stack was potted in
epoxy and polished to obtain a flat surface; the fill fraction of
crystal within epoxy was about 50

Crystals with reduced transition temperatures were also prepared for
study. This was accomplished either by the removal of oxygen in a
subsequent anneal or by doping with impurity atoms such as Mg. The
crystals with reduced oxygen concentration generally showed broader
transitions (5-15 K wide), suggesting considerable inhomogeneity in
oxygen content or location. The impurities in the Mg-doped samples were
introduced indirectly through growth in an MgO crucible, thus, the Mg
concentration is at the saturation value for the growth temperature and
is not readily variable. The Mg-doped samples typically have a
transition temperature of ≃ 80 K with a width of about 1 K. The reduced
oxygen content crystals with T_(c) ∼ 60 K have a typical transition
width of 10 K.

The films were deposited by the laser ablation technique onto (100)
SrTiO3 substrates at 730 degC in 0.2 Torr oxygen ambient.[72, 73] Fully
oxygenated films were obtained by adding 1 atm of oxygen at the end of
the deposition experiment and cooling down slowly. They typically had a
zero-resistance transition temperature of 92 K and a 1-K transition
width [Fig. 2(b)]. Films with lower transition temperatures (40-60 K)
were prepared by the use of lower oxygen pressures of about 0.5-1 Torr
during the cooling procedure. All films are microtwinned on a very fine
scale in the _a-b_ plane. Fiml thicknesses range from about 200 A to 0.5
μm. In reflectivity measurements on films, features associated with the
substrate tend to appear if the film is not substantially thicker than
the infrared penetration depth (∼ 1500 A). In this study we discuss
reflectivity results on the thicker films (0.4 μm), for which these
substrate related effects are not observable.

### Infrared measurements techniques

The infrared reflectivity spectra presented in the article were acquired
at near normal incidence (≃ 12deg) using a scanning interferometer. A
number of different sources, beamsplitters, detectors, and windows were
used to obtain data from 50-12 000 cm⁻¹. At low frequencies a Si
bolometer mounted on a diamond substrate was used in conjunction with
Mylar beam splitters, a Hg arc source, and high-density white
polyethylene windows on the sample and detector dewars. To obtain high
bolometer sensitivity, cold filters and apertures mounted on a filter
wheel inside the bolometer dewar were used to restrict the amount of
background blackbody radiation reaching the bolometer. A high-frequency
cutoff of about 700 cm⁻¹ is set by the white polyethylene windows.

To reach higher frequencies the white polyethylene windows are replaced
by KRS5 windows, which transmit from about 200 cm⁻¹ up to beyond 20 000
cm⁻¹. Data was obtained below 5000 cm⁻¹ using both bolometric detection
(200-5000 cm⁻¹) and a HgCdTe photoconductive detector (800-5000 cm⁻¹)
with a CsI beamsplitter, and glowbar source. To obtain data at higher
frequencies, photovoltaic detectors [InSb (2500-8000 cm⁻¹), Ge ($\ga$
5500 cm⁻¹), and Si ($\ga$ 8700)], a quartz beamsplitter, and tungsten
lamp source were used. There was substantial overlap in the range of
frequencies covered with each of these combinations and the coincidence
of the spectra was usually better than 1

Samples were mounted in a circulating Helium cold finger cryostat on a
sliding sample holder. An evaporated Au mirror, which was used as a
reference, was mounted in close proximity to the sample. A manipulator
al

Figure 2: (a) ac susceptibility (χ) as a function of temperature for a
YBa2Cu3O7 crystal. The inset shows χ in the region of the transition.
The high-transition temperature and narrow-transition width are
characteristic of the fully oxygenated YBa2Cu3O7 crystals used in this
work. (b) Resistivity as a function of temperature for the YBa2Cu3O7
film used in this study. The film is ≃ 0.4-μ thick, and is oriented with
the c axis perpendicular to the surface.

lowed the sample holder to be moved so that either the sample or the
reference could be positioned in the infrared beam as the measurements
were made. A comparison of Au-to-Au and Brass-to-Au reflectivity ratios
indicated an accuracy of about 1

### Kramers-Kronig transform

While much can be learned from direct inspection of reflectivity curves,
the infrared conductivity _s_(_o_) is a more fundamental quantity from
which to analyze the infrared response of the oxide superconductors. To
obtain _s_(_o_) one applies a Kramers-Kronig transform to the
reflectivity _R_(_o_), which yields the phase shift _th_(_o_). From
_th_(_o_) and _R_(_o_) the real and imaginary parts of _s_(_o_) are
calculated at each frequency. (For a discussion of Kramers-Kronig
transforms see, for example, Ref. 74.) Formally, the phase-shift
integral requires a knowledge of the reflectivity at all frequencies. In
practice, one obtains the reflectivity over as wide a frequency range as
possible and then terminates the transform by extrapolating the
reflectivity to frequencies above and below the range of the available
measurements. This extrapolation must be done with considerable care
since significant contributions to _th_(_o_) can come from the
reflectance at frequencies well removed from the region of interest.

In the present work we have experimental with a variety of terminations
both at the high- and low-frequency ends of our measurement range.
Regarding the low-frequency termination, we find that the conductivities
obtained using various extrapolations for the reflectivity at low o
differ primarily only in the region of the extrapolation. The
conductivity at frequencies for which there is actual data is not
effected significantly by the choice of low-frequency termination. In
this paper we have extended the transform to lower frequencies by
attaching a reflectivity of the Hagens-Rubens form [(1-_R_)
$\propto \sqrt {\omega }$] to our spectra.

The high-frequency termination appears to be more crucial. Although most
choices for the termination give the same qualitative spectral shape in
the region of the data, the choice of the high-frequency termination can
have a large effect on the overall magnitude of the conductivity in the
infrared region. This primarily effects estimates of the integrated
strength of the conductivity, which are used in sum-rule arguments. In
the present work potential problems related to the high-frequency
termination are avoided by appending to our data the reflectivity
spectra of Tajima _et al._,34 which extend up to 280 000 cm⁻¹ (34 eV).
In that data very large, broad peaks in s1(_o_) are present near 8 eV
( 60 000 cm⁻¹) and 15 eV ( 125 000 cm⁻¹). These peaks have an enormous
oscillator strength relative to the infrared conductivity (about 50
times larger), and appear to tail gradually into the infrared region
with no clear low-frequency cutoff. These tails may account for part of
the mid-infrared conductivity (at  5000 cm⁻¹) discussed below. Above
about 200 000 cm⁻¹, the reflectivity given by Tajima _et al._34 varies
as 1/_o_4, which is the free-electron asymptotic limit. We terminate the
transform above 280 000 cm⁻¹ by assuming the 1/_o_4 form of the
reflectivity continues above this frequency. We also find that changing
the reflectivity above 280 000 cm⁻¹ does not have a significant effect
on the conductivity at infrared frequencies, and therefore believe this
approach gives an accurate determination of the conductivity below 12
000 cm⁻¹ for YBa₂Cu₃O₇.

## III Results

### (_a-b_)-plane normal state

In Fig. 3(a) the measured (_a-b_)-plane reflectivity of fully oxygenated
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is shown up to 10 000 cm⁻¹ for T = 100 K (solid line) and T =
250 K (dashed line). As the temperature is lowered from 250 to 100 K,
the infrared reflectivity increases almost uniformly over a broad
frequency range up to  8000 cm⁻¹, as previously reported.31 This has
important implications for infrared sum rules, as discussed in Sec.
IV.1. From the Kramers-Kronig transform of this reflectivity data, along
with other data34 extending up to 280 000 cm⁻¹ (35 eV), the real and
imaginary parts of _e_(_o_) are obtained. The terminations used in the
transform, as well as the importance of terminating the data
appropriately, are discussed in Sec. II. From the imaginary part of
_e_(_o_), one can obtain the real part of the conductivity, s1(_o_),
using s1(_o_) = _o_e_2(_o_)/4p1(_o_) and e1(_o_) are plotted as a
function of frequency in Figs. 3(b) and 3(c), respectively. The infrared
conductivity, s1(_o_), in Fig. 3(b) has a peak at the origin, which
grows and sharpens as the temperature is lowered from 250 to 100 K.
Above about 500 cm⁻¹ s1(_o_) decreases gradually and monotonically with
increasing frequency. A background conductivity at a level of about
500-1500 (Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹ extends throughout of the infrared. This mid-infrared
conductivity is quite reproducible in YBa₂Cu₃O₇, however, determining if
this conductivity is present in all Cu-O superconductors, remains a key
issue. In Sec. IV several possible explanations for this conductivity
and their significance are discussed.

The dielectric function, e1(_o_), is negative at low frequencies and
crosses zero at about 8000 cm⁻¹, as shown in Fig. 3(c). The frequency of
this plasma edge is about a factor of 3-5 lower than in a typical metal
such as Ag.74 Recent polarized data from untwinned domains of a
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ crystal report the resolution of this plasma edge into two
distinct edges at  7000 cm⁻¹ and  9000 cm⁻¹ associated with the a and b
crystal axes, respectively.37 It has been suggested that an
(_a-b_)-plane plasma edge is present in YBa₂Cu₃O₇ in a frequency range
close to the energy gap, making it virtually impossible to deter mine an
energy gap from infrared data.[29] As shown here and in other work,[31,
34, 35, 36, 37] this is not the case; the (_a-b_)-plane plasma edge lies
well above the frequency range relevant for energy gap measurement.

In Fig. 4(a) the temperature dependence of the reflectivity in the
normal state is shown in more detail for ω ≲ 2000 cm⁻¹ and T = 250, 200,
150, and 105 K. The reflectivity [Fig. 4(a)] increases rather uniformly
as the temperature is lowered from 250 to 105 K. To avoid confusion,
σ₁(ω) and ϵ₁(ω) are shown only at the endpoints of this temperature
sequence in Figs. 4(b) and 4(c). The observation that a displacement of
ϵ₁(ω) accompanies the growth of the peak in σ₁(ω) at low frequency is a
reflection of the Kramers-Kronig relationship between these two
quantities. At T = 105 K the extrapolated peak value of σ₁(ω) at ω = 0
is between 15 000 and 20 000 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹, and the half-width of this peak
is roughly 150 cm⁻¹ (i.e.,  ∼ 2kT_(c)). Extrapolated values of the dc
resistivity, discussed in Sec. IV.1, are plotted as a function of
temperature, in the inset to Fig. 4(b).

### (_a-b_)-plane superconducting state

The uniform pattern of temperature dependence established in the normal
state (Fig. 4) gives way to qualitatively different behavior in the
superconducting state (Fig. 5). R, σ₁(ω), and ϵ₁(ω) are shown at three
temperatures in Fig. 5: one well into the normal state (150 K),

Figure 4: (a) The normal state (_a-b_)-plane reflectivity of a YBa₂Cu₃O₇
crystal at 105 K (solid curve), 150 K (dotted curve), 200 K
(dotted-dashed curve), and 250 K (dashed curve) is shown. (b) The real
part of the conductivity, σ₁(ω), at 105 K (solid curve) and 250 K
(dashed curve) obtained from the Kramers-Kronig transform of the
reflectivity data in (a) are shown. The temperature dependence of the dc
resistivity, obtained from an extrapolation to ω = 0, is shown in the
inset. (c) ϵ₁(ω) is shown at T = 105 K (solid curve) and 250 K (dashed
curve). The structures at about 350 and 500 cm⁻¹ are phonon related.

Figure 3: Reflectivity at 250 K (dashed curve) and 105 K (solid curve)
for the _a-b_ plane of a YBa₂Cu₃O₇ crystal (T_(c) = 93 K). The real part
of the conductivity, σ₁(ω), and the real part of the dielectric
function, ϵ₁(ω), obtained from a Kramers-Kronig transform of the
reflectivity, are shown in (b) and (c), respective-ly.

one just above the transition (105 K), and one in the superconducting
state (45 K). These quantities are essentially independent of
temperature below about 55 K, thus the 45-K spectra are representative
of the superconducting state at low temperature. The superconducting
reflectivity is quite high for ω ≲ 500 cm⁻¹, drops rapidly between 500
and 800 cm⁻¹, and lies below the normal-state reflectivity in the
vicinity of 800 cm⁻¹. Correspondingly, the superconducting-state
conductivity is depressed for ω ≲ 500 cm⁻¹, and increases rapidly above
this frequency, coalescing with σ_(1n)(ω) near about 900 cm⁻¹. In the
frequency range between about 500 and 800 cm⁻¹, we also observe that
ϵ_(1s)(ω) crosses above ϵ_(1n)(ω). This crossover of ϵ_(1s)(ω) is
directly related to both the rapid rise of σ_(1s)(ω) between 500 and 800
cm⁻¹, and the lower value of the reflectivity in the superconducting
state relative to that in the normal state near 800 cm⁻¹.

The depression of σ_(1s)(ω) below 500 cm⁻¹ and the rapid return to
normalcy between 500 and 800 cm⁻¹, suggest a depression of the
single-particle density of states near E_(f), with a pair excitation
threshold near 500 cm⁻¹. Between about 150 and 500 cm⁻¹, σ_(1s)(ω) is
slowly varying with a value between 1000 and 2000 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹. Various
possible sources of this conductivity at low T below 500 cm⁻¹ are
discussed in Sec. IV.2, where it is noted that this level is comparable
to a recently reported experimental estimate of the chain-related
contribution to σ₁(ω) in this frequency range.[37]

Below 150 cm⁻¹ the uncertainty in σ_(1s)(ω) becomes quite large. The
tendency of the absolute uncertainty in σ_(1s)(ω) to increase at low
frequency is an intrinsic problem in infrared measurements of bulk
(i.e., thick) samples. Although not rigorous, one can view the
uncertainty in σ_(1s)(ω) as resulting from the low-ω divergence in the
noise-to-signal ratio for the absorptivity, A = 1 − R, as R approaches
unity. Looking in more detail, the absolute error in σ_(1s)(ω) is
related to the magnitude of ϵ_(1s)(ω), which diverges like 1/ω². This
leads to a rapidly increasing uncertainty in σ_(1s)(ω) at low frequency.
The problem is further exacerbated by the experimental tendency of the
noise in R to increase at low ω (due both to decreasing source intensity
and the increase in cavity resonance problems at long wavelength). One
can "solve" these

Figure 5: (a) a-b reflectivity in the superconducting state at 45 K
(solid line) and in the normal state at 105 K (dashed line) and 150 K
(dotted line) for a YBa₂Cu₃O₇ crystal with T_(c) ≈ 93 K is shown. The
corresponding conductivity, σ₁(ω), and ϵ₁(ω) are shown in (b) and (c).
There is an enhancement of the reflectivity and a gaplike depression of
the conductivity in the superconducting state for ω ≲ 500 cm⁻¹.

Figure 6: (a) The real part of the (a-b)-plane conductivity of a
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ crystal is shown for T=45 K (solid curve), 80 K (dotted-dashed
curve), 105 K (dotted curve), 125 K (dashed curve), and 150 K (solid
curve), respectively. In (b) the temperature dependence of the
conductivity at 530 cm⁻¹, which is quite rapid just below T_(c), is
shown.

problems by setting the reflectivity exactly equal to unity below a
particular frequency, thus cutting off the growing noise envelope in
σ_(1s)(ω) at a chosen frequency below which σ_(1s)(ω) is set to 0. This
approach leads to a prominent feature in the conductivity at the cutoff
frequency for which there is no evidence in the data. In the present
work, we have instead terminated each plot of σ_(1s)(ω) at about the
frequency where its uncertainty exceeds ∼ 1000 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹.

The temperature dependence of the conductivity is examined more closely
in Fig. 6(a), where spectra at T = 45, 80, 105, 125, and 150 K are
shown. In the vicinity of 500 cm⁻¹ the conductivity begins to drop quite
rapidly below T_(c), and by 80 K (dotted-dashed curve) lies well below
the normal state curves. Below 50 K the reflectivity and conductivity
are essentially independent of temperature. In Fig. 6(b) the
conductivity at 500 cm⁻¹ is shown as a function of temperature. The
rapid drop of σ₁ (500) just below T_(c) reinforces the fundamental
relationship between the suppression of σ₁(ω) and the transition to the
superconducting state. It also provides a means to observe the
transition into the superconducting state which is analogous to
microwave or dc conductivity measurements as a function of temperature.

The corresponding temperature dependence of the reflectivity ratios,
R(T)/R (150 K) is shown in Fig. 7. Above T_(c) these reflectivity ratios
are primarily flat lines, reflecting the uncomplicated temperature
dependence of the normal state, however, below T_(c) a characteristic "S
shape" emerges with a peak in R_(s)/R_(n) at ω ≃ 500 cm⁻¹. The inset of
Fig. 7 shows the difference between the reflectivity at 400 and 800 cm⁻¹
as a function of temperature, which grows rapidly just below T_(c). In
Fig. 8(a) the ratio of the conductivity at a temperature T to that at
150 K is shown for T = 45 K (solid curve), 80 K (dashed curve), and 105
K (dotted curve).

In these Figs. 7 and 8 one observes that the amplitude of the gaplike
feature associated with the transition to superconductivity is very
strongly temperature dependent near T_(c). In contrast, the
characteristic frequency of this feature does not appear to change
substantially even in the vicinity of T_(c), as illustrated in Fig.
8(b). [For Fig. 8(b) the characteristic frequency is obtained by
extrapolating the conductivity ratio above the gap down to the level of
the minimum in σ_(s)/σ_(n).] The lower dotted curve shows a BCS
temperature dependence for T_(c) = 93 K. [It is inappropriate to scale
the BCS curve in a manner which fails to preserve the relationship 2Δ(0)
= 3.52kT_(c), since the physics of gap collapse and the magnitude of the
gap are intimately related.] It is clear that the temperature dependence
does not follow a BCS curve, but rather that the gap remains quite large
up to as close to T_(c) as we can measure. This unusual temperature
dependence, the large magnitude of the gap, and the short coherence
lengths in the cuprate superconductors may be related, as discussed in
Sec. IV.2.4.

An additional unconventional aspect of the infrared data can be seen in
the conductivity ratios shown in Fig. 8(a). Even in the 105-K spectrum,
there is a minimum in the vicinity of 300 - 500 cm⁻¹ which is
reminiscent of the prominent gaplike feature that is present at lower
temperatures. These data suggest the possibility of fluctuation effects
which are not describable in the conventional Aslamasov-Larkin
formulation, as also discussed in Sec. IV.2.4.

Figure 8: (a) The ratio of the real part of the (a-b)-plane conductivity
at a temperature T to that at 150 K is shown for T = 45 K (solid curve),
80 K (dashed curve), and 105 K (dotted curve) for a YBa₂Cu₃O₇ crystal
with T_(c) ≃ 93 K. In (b) a characteristic gap frequency is plotted as a
function of temperature. The lower dotted curve shows the BCS
(mean-field) temperature dependence for T_(c) = 93 K.

Figure 7: The ratio of the (a-b)-plane reflectivity at a temperature T
to that at 150 K is shown for T = 45 K (solid curve), 65 K
(dotted-dashed curve), 80 K (dotted-dashed curve), 105 K (dotted curve),
125 K (dashed curve), and 150 K (solid curve). In the inset the
difference between the value of this ratio at 400 and at 800 cm⁻¹ is
plotted as a function of temperature, illustrating the fundamental
relationship between the ≃8kT_(c) reflectivity enhancement and the
transition to the superconducting state (at T_(c) = 93 K).

### Reduced T_(c) samples

For reduced T_(c) YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) samples a distinction between the
temperature dependence in the normal and superconducting states has not
been established.[30] The gaps which have been reported for these
materials are based on attempts to establish a frequency at which the
reflectivity first departs from unity,[30] rather than from detailed
studies of the temperature dependencies similar to those present here.
Our own measurements of reduced-T_(c) samples show either a small change
or no noticeable change in the infrared temperature dependence near
T_(c). For a Mg-doped sample, with T_(c) ≃ 80 K, we observe a
reflectivity enhancement below ≃ 600 cm⁻¹ which correlates with T_(c)
and is very similar to that seen in the 93-K material, however, the
amplitude of the enhancement (R_(s)/R_(n)) is about a factor of 3 less
than for the fully oxygenated YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (even though the absolute
reflectivity is lower in the Mg-doped sample). This observation raises
the possibility that this feature of the data may be absent entirely in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) samples with lower T_(c). We note that it is difficult
to observe a definite change at T_(c) in the temperature dependencies of
other physical properties (such as specific heat[44] and nuclear
quadrupole relaxation rate[45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55,
56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73,
74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91,
92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, work the earlier problems with absolute
measurements were associated with the infrared measurement itself,
rather than with substantive intrinsic differences in the crystals.

### Anisotropy

Using a stack of several YBa₂Cu₃O₇ crystals, as described above, we have
performed measurements with the infrared electric field polarized
perpendicular to the conducting planes.[36] The _c_-axis reflectivities
in the normal (100 K) and superconducting (50 K) states are presented in
Fig. 10(a). To obtain absolute reflectivities the data was rescaled to
account for the open space between individual crystals. (The
reflectivity of the epoxy was found to be quite small and was therefore
ignored.) Because of these corrections, there is considerably more
uncertainty in the absolute reflectivity along the c axis than in the
(_a-b_)-plane data. This uncertainty effects the estimate of how close
the low-frequency reflectivity comes to unity in the superconducting
state. However, in the normal state the absorption along the c axis is
large, hence the conductivity is only moderately sensitive to this
correction.

The real part of the conductivity, shown in Fig. 10(b), is obtained from
a Kramers-Kronig transform of the reflectivity using additional
higher-frequency data[77] scaled to match our spectra. The peaks in the
normal and superconducting conductivities correspond to _c_-axis
polarized phonons at frequencies of approximately 150, 195, 220, 270,
310, and 570 cm⁻¹, while the relatively constant background in
σ_(1_(a))(ω) is presumably electronic. For the _c_-axis direction the
electronic contribution to σ₁(ω) is much smaller than for E∥_a,b_ as
expected. Extrapolating the normal-state conductivity to o = 0 as a
constant yields an estimate for the _c_-axis dc conductivity of 400 Ω⁻¹
cm⁻¹, which is about 40 times less than the extrapolated (_a-b_)-plane
conductivity. This anisotropy (40:1) estimate appears to be at the very
low end of the range of values reported from dc transport measurements.

For the _c_-axis direction the electronic and phonon contributions to
σ₁(ω) are roughly comparable in magnitude in Fig. 10(b). The phonons are
thus not well screened and phonon related features appear prominently in
both the reflectivity and in ϵ₁(ω) [Fig. 10(c)], which exhibits phonon
related zero crossings in this low-frequency region. When the
temperature is reduced below T_(c) we observe an enhancement of the
low-frequency reflectivity [Fig. 10(a)], and a corresponding depression
of the low-frequency conductivity [Fig. 10(b)] suggesting the opening of
a gap in the electronic conductivity. The frequency of the lowest-energy
phonon (155 cm⁻¹) increases slightly (≃ 2 cm⁻¹) below T_(c), while the
higher-energy modes exhibit the opposite temperature dependence,
decreasing in frequency by from 2 to 5 cm⁻¹ near T_(c). Some of these
phonon-frequency shifts at the transition to superconductivity have been
observed in ceramics[17] as well as corresponding changes in the
dampings of the phonons,[16] although the present work provides the
first identification of the (_c_-axis) polarization of these phonons.
One can also observe, in Fig. 10(a), that the reflectivity feature
associated with the lowest _c_-axis phonon (155 cm⁻¹) changes from
absorptive in the superconducting state to dispersive in the normal
state, whereas the higher-frequency phonons always appear dispersively.
These observations are consistent with the point of view that the
155-cm⁻¹ phonon lies below a gap in the spectrum of electronic
excitations, but that the other phonons (at ω ≥ 195 cm⁻¹) do not. From
this point of view an energy scale of 2Δ_(c) ≃ (2-3)kT_(c) could be
inferred. This value is consistent with the upper bound that Noh _et
al._[78] have reported for the _c_-axis gap of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄,
based on studies of the sphere resonance of isolated small particles.

In Fig. 11 the ratio of the reflectivity in the superconducting state
(50 K) to that in the normal state (100 K) is shown for both the c axis
and the _a-b_ plane, along with the corresponding conductivity ratios.
As a consequence of the very low electronic conductivity in the c
direction, the normal-state reflectivity is quite low and the ratio
R_(s)/R_(n) tends to be much larger for E∥_c_ than for
$\overline{E}\parallel$_a,b_. The amplitude of this reflectivity ratio
has been reduced

Figure 10: (a) reflectivity, (b) conductivity, and (c) dielectric
response of YBa₂Cu₃O₇ with the electric field polarized perpendicular to
the CuO₂ planes (i.e., along the c axis), are shown for T = 100 K
(dashed curve) and 50 K (solid curve). The relatively constant
background conductivity in the normal state [dashed curve of (b)] is
electronic, while the peaks in σ₁(ω), and corresponding structures in R
and ϵ₁(ω), are due to _c_-axis polarized phonons. Note that the
electronic conductivity is quite low, hence the relative prominence of
the phonons.

by $\frac{1}{8}$ to allow it to fit on the same scale as the R_(s)/R_(n)
ratio from the (a-b)-plane measurements. It is quite clear from Fig. 11
that the energy scale associated with the c-axis electrodynamics in the
superconducting state is much smaller than for the (a-b)-plane
directions; however, the presence of phonons and the corrections
discussed above make it difficult to assign a precise value for the
c-axis gap (assuming that a true gap exists). Fits of conventional
Mattis-Bardeen and Eliashberg forms[36] to the data yield a
characteristic energy scale of about 170 cm⁻¹, i.e., 2Δ_(c) ≃ 3kT_(c),
consistent with the value inferred from the changes in the c-axis
phonons, as discussed earlier. More conservatively, one can simply
observe, from Fig. 11, that the characteristic energy scale inferred
from the infrared data, depends critically on the polarization of the
electric field with respect to the principal crystal axes in YBa₂Cu₃O₇.

It is interesting to compare the polarized reflectivity ratios in Fig.
11 to the changes in reflectivity which are observed at T_(c) in ceramic
samples of YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (see, for instance, Refs. [14] and [15]). The
strong similarity of the ceramic data to our c-axis ratios appears to
confirm the earlier interpretation[22] that ceramic measurements are
predominantly sensitive to the c-axis response in the superconducting
state. Presumably this results from the large size of the c-axis
reflectivity enhancement relative to that associated with the a-b plane.
Recent results from La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ crystals[39] also provide
strong support for this point of view.

Both the nature and significance of the electronic transport and
infrared response associated with the direction perpendicular to the
planes is very uncertain. In one view the planes are essentially
isolated (transport perpendicular to the planes occurs through Josephson
tunneling), and there is only one energy scale in the problem, the
(a-b)-plane gap. Reports of extremely short coherence lengths
perpendicular to the planes tend to support this approach. If, on the
other hand, pairing interactions occur between quasiparticles on
different planes, then the concept of distinct energy scales becomes
meaningful, and an anisotropic gap with a symmetry no higher than that
of the normal state is expected. It has also been suggested that
coupling between the planes drives the transition to the superconducting
state (in a manner roughly analogous to that in which the coupling
between planes in a nearly two-dimensional Heisenberg antiferromagnet is
responsible for the transition to long-range order). The number of
planes per unit cell is an additional consideration since coupling
between planes in the same unit cell may differ fundamentally from
coupling between planes in different unit cells. At the present time,
the potential theoretical implications of anisotropy in the
pair-breaking energy of superconducting YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is unclear. In the
complex YBa₂Cu₃O₇ structure, the smaller c-axis gap could be associated
with chains, the presence of which tends to complicate the simple
picture of weakly coupled planes given above. Additional
polarization-dependent infrared studies of systems with no chains (such
as Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 − y)), or with only one plane per unit cell (for
example, La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄) may be helpful in addressing these
issues.

## IV Discussion

### Normal state

Studies of the normal state of the Cu-O superconductors are based on two
complementary motives. First, the question of what Hamiltonian is most
appropriate to describe the essential physics of the layered cuprates is
best addressed in the normal state (of course, a key test of that
Hamiltonian is the nature of its low-temperature ground state). Second,
the normal state appears to be interesting in its own right. While it is
widely accepted that strong correlation effects are responsible for the
insulating behavior of the half-filled band, a key issue which
distinguishes the different views of the normal state concerns the
manner in which these strong correlations are manifest away from
half-filling. Both Hall and infrared measurements are potentially
relevant to this question (see, e.g., Refs. [79]−[81], [33] and [38]).
In the infrared this issue is closely tied to questions about the total
oscillator strength in the free-carrier contribution to the
conductivity, and how one models the normal-state conductivity, which is
shown in Fig. 3. One fundamental question is

Figure 11: Superconducting-state anisotropy of YBa₂Cu₃O₇. (a) The ratio
of the reflectivity in the superconducting state (45 **K**) to that in
the normal state (105 K) is shown for ${\bf E}\|a,b$ (solid line) and
for ${\bf E}\|c$ (dashed line). (b) The corresponding ratios of the real
part of the conductivity in the superconducting state to that in the
normal are also shown for both polarizations. Considerable anisotropy in
the characteristic energy scale associated with the enhancement of the
reflectivity and corresponding depression of the conductivity, is
clearly evident in the infrared data.

whether the low-frequency conductivity should be associated with (1-8)
electrons per Cu site, which is the prediction of Fermi-liquid
theory[82], or 8 holes per Cu site, as predicted in RVB and other highly
correlated approaches to the normal state.[83] (Here 8 is the deviation
from half-filling per Cu site.) This issue can become quite subtle when
mass enhancement, which can depend strongly on filling (8), is included.
Another fundamental question is the degree to which the infrared
conductivity reflects the presence of low-energy charge or spin
excitations, which may be directly or indirectly relevant to the
superconducting mechanism. These issues are considered in the following
discussion.

#### iii.2.1 Infrared sum rules

In Fig. 12 the integrated normal state (_a-b_)-plane conductivity at 100
K is shown for fully-oxygenated (T_(c) 93 K) YBa2Cu3O7 and for an
oxygen-deficient film sample with T_(c) 60 K. The units used are
carriers per unit cell, _n_(_a_), where

$$n(\omega) = \frac{2m_{b}}{\pi}\int_{0}^{\omega}\sigma(\omega^{\prime})d\omega^{\prime}\;.$$

Note that the relevant mass m_(b) is the high-frequency optical mass,
rather than the (enhanceable) low-frequency mass. In Fig. 12 we have
arbitrarily chosen m_(b) to be the free-electron mass. [In our notation
_n_(_o_) may be either an electron or hole density depending upon which
of the above views of the normal state is most meaningful.] For fully
oxygenated YBa2Cu3O7 (_T_ 93 K), the area contained in _s_(_o_) up to 10
000 cm-1 corresponds to roughly one hole per unit cell (o_(p) 23 000
cm-1), which is the value predicted by naive formal valence arguments.
For the YBa2Cu3O7 T_(c) 60 K film (nominally x = 0.4), we get an area
corresponding to about 0.5 holes per unit cell with the same (10 000
cm-1) high-frequency cutoff.

Attempting to analyze the variation of _n_(_o_) with x in YBa2Cu3O7-_x_
is a formidable task with both theoretical and experimental
uncertainties. The choice of optical mass is rather arbitrary, as is the
high-frequency limit of integration, since there is no clear separation
of the low-frequency conductivity from the large interband contributions
at higher frequency. Variation of the oxygen content changes the
coordination of the chain Cu, and presumably its valency as well,
introducing further complexity (and disorder). As a consequence there is
no Hubbard insulator at x = 0.5 to which deviations from a half-filled
band could be reliably referred. (Pr or Nd doping at the Y site might
provide a more controlled way in which to vary d.) Even at x = 0 (i.e.,
O7), there is ambiguity associated with the distribution of holes
between the chains and planes. Theoretical considerations originating
from the point of view of a lightly-doped Hubbard insulator place all
the holes on the planes, however, Tokura _et al._[81] have argued that
the holes are divided between the chains and planes with 0.5 holes per
chain Cu and 0.25 holes per plane Cu (for a total of one hole per unit
cell) in YBa2Cu3O7. Very recent polarized infrared data[37] seem to be
consistent with a very large fraction of holes on the chains ( 0.6 per
Cu), and  0.2 holes per plane Cu (close to the value of d where
La2-SrxCuO4 exhibits maximum T_(c)), although data extending to higher
frequencies may be required to make this interpretation completely
unambiguous.

#### iii.2.2 Temperature dependence of the infrared and dc
conductivities

In Fig. 4(b), the conductivity exhibits a peak at low frequency. The
growth of this peak as temperature is reduced is suggestive of the
normal-state temperature dependence of _s__d higher than that at 250 K,
for ω ≲ 300 cm⁻¹, and slightly lower in the range 300 ≲ ω ≲ 600 cm⁻¹.
Because the excess area in the conductivity at 105 K exceeds the deficit
in this restricted frequency range, this data suggests that conductivity
changes extending to higher frequency are also occurring. The relevant
question is, up to what frequency must we integrate σ₁(ω) so that the
integral will be independent of temperature? This question is difficult
to address directly because cumulative errors develop in integrating
σ₁(ω), which are comparable to the small changes we are attempting to
study. [The cumulative error has both numerical origins (noise related),
and systematic origins associated with the fact that σ₁(ω) is obtained
via a Kramers-Kronig transform.] A more robust way to consider the sum
rule question is through a direct examination of the reflectivity. If
the sum rule were satisfied within a fairly modest frequency range
(e.g., of order several _kT_), then the reflectivity would not be
significantly temperature dependent above that frequency range. The
observation that the reflectivity is almost uniformly temperature
dependent up to  ∼ 8000 cm⁻¹, indicates that one must integrate up to a
frequency of that magnitude to satisfy the sum rule. In other words, the
conductivity that is going into the temperature-dependent peak near
ω = 0, appears to be coming from a very broad range of frequencies in
the infrared, as previously reported.[31] Qualitatively, this behavior
is typical of a frequency-dependent scattering model,[31] although the
proper way to model the normal-state dynamics remains open, as discussed
Sec. IV.1.3.

#### Modeling the normal-state data

The normal state (_a-b_)-plane conductivity of YBa2Cu3O7 has been
previously interpreted in terms of two conceptually different models.
Both models are attempts to deal with the observation that the infrared
conductivity does not diminish with frequency as rapidly as one expects
for a simple weak-coupling Drude picture [i.e., σ₁(ω) ∝ 1/ω²]. Instead
there is a very broad background conductivity, which persists throughout
the infrared as seen in Fig. 3(a). Both models also implicitly assume
that this background conductivity is associated with the CuO2 planes. It
is also possible that some of this background conductivity may not be
intrinsic to the planes, but may instead be associated with the presence
of chains or extrinsic loss mechanisms. To study the normal-state
dynamics in the infrared, one measures reflectivity (over a wide
frequency range), and Kramers-Kronig transforms that data to obtain
conductivity as a function of ω. One approach to the cuprate data has
been to divide the conductivity into two parts, one associated with a
mid-infrared mode and the other with the free carriers.[29] Another has
been to describe the low-frequency dynamics in terms of a strongly
frequency-dependent scattering rate.[30, 31] These two formulations are
not mutually exclusive. The division of σ(ω) into two parts is certainly
necessary above 1.5 eV, and may be relevant near  ∼ 1 or  ∼ 0.5 eV (4000
cm⁻¹). At the same time the scattering rate for the Drude term must have
a frequency dependence at lower ω corresponding to the T dependence of
ρ_(dis).

(a) _Spin-interaction picture._ In one version of the
frequency-dependent scattering approach, essentially all of the
conductivity below about 8000 cm⁻¹ ( ∼ 1.5 eV) is accounted for within a
single strongly coupled band. An interaction between the charge carriers
and a spin-related excitation spectrum causes both the carrier mass and
scattering rate to be strongly frequency (and temperature) dependent. In
this picture, mass enhancement at low frequency is associated with a
"spin-excitation cloud" which is dragged along by the carrier, while at
high frequency (i.e., ω≳ the characteristic spin-excitation frequency)
the carrier motion becomes too rapid for the spin excitations to follow,
and thus the carriers shed their mass enhancement. The scattering rate
increases correspondingly from a relatively low value at low ω, to a
much higher one at high ω as the inelastic scattering process become
energetically allowed. The conductivity that results from such strong
inelastic scattering exhibits a coherent peak at low frequencies, and a
broad incoherent background extending to much higher frequency. Roughly
speaking, the total area in the conductivity (coherent plus incoherent),
divided by the area of the coherent peak alone, provides an approximate
measure of the mass enhancement (m^(*)/m_(b) = 1 + λ) and, hence the
coupling strength (λ). Based on this approach, coupling strengths of
λ = 10 and λ ≃ 3 were originally reported for YBa2Cu3O7-_x_ (_x_  ≃ 0.3,
T_(c) ≃ 50 − 70 K) and YBa2Cu3O7 (T_(c) ≃ 92 K), respectively.[30, 31]
As discussed later the former value appears to have been overestimated;
roughly similar values (near λ = 3) are now obtained for both the fully
oxygenated (T_(c) = 92 K) and
$T_{c} \simeq (50 - 60) - K samples with this approach.

In a phenomenological approach similar to that pioneered by Sievers and co-workers[34, 35, 36] (to treat mass enhancement in heavy-Fermion and mixed-valence compounds), one can express the conductivity in terms of a frequency-dependent mass and scattering rate as[31]

\[\sigma(\omega) = \frac{ne^{2}\tau^{\ast}(\omega)}{m^{\ast}(\omega)[1 - i\omega\tau^{\ast}(\omega)]}\ .\] (2)

Here \(m^{\ast}(\omega) = m_{b}[1 + \lambda(\omega)\rbrack$ is the
renormalized mass and 1/τ^(*)(ω) = 1/τ(ω)[1 + λ(ω)] is the renormalized
scattering rate. In this generalized Drude form (also referred to as
memory function formalism), the unrenormalized scattering rate, τ⁻¹(ω)
and the coupling λ(ω) are related by causality through a Kramers-Kronig
relation.

Using the measured conductivity (real and imaginary parts) one can
calculate the scattering rate and mass at each frequency with Eq. (2).
In this calculation we use n/m_(b) = 6 × 10²¹ cm⁻³/m_(c) (which
corresponds to about 1 hole per unit cell), based on the conductivity
sums discussed earlier. The value of n/m_(b) sets the plasma frequency
(ω_(p)² ∝ n/m_(b)) and is proportional to the total area in the
free-carrier contribution to the conductivity. In Fig. 13 we show τ⁻¹(ω)
and m^(*)/m_(b) = 1 + λ(ω) as a function of frequency for YBa2Cu3O7 at
100 K as calculated from Eq. (2). The frequency dependence of τ⁻¹ is
most rapid below about 1000 cm⁻¹ which roughly sets the frequency scale
for the inelastic scattering spectrum. The low-frequency value of
_l_(_o_) indicates an overall coupling strength of l   3, in agreement
with the above estimate based on conductivity sum rules. A more detailed
attempt to model the data from a spectral density a2_F_(_o_) is
discussed in Ref. [31].

Note that the coupling obtained from Eq. (2) is quite sensitive to the
value of n /_m_b used, and thus will be inaccurate if there are
contributions to _s_(_o_) in the frequency range of interest, that are
not intrinsic to the CuO2 planes. If part of the conductivity below 10
000 cm-1 is associated with interband or chain contributions, then the
actual value of the coupling would be less than the value shown in Fig.
13. For example, subtracting a chain contribution consistent with Ref.
[37] from the total conductivity, one obtains n /_m_b   3 x 1021 cm-3.
Using this value is Eq. (2), one then obtains a revised estimate for the
low-frequency mass enhancement of about 2. The frequency content of the
excitation spectrum to which the carriers couple is not dramatically
changed. The scattering rate and mass enhancement as a function of
frequency for this case are shown in Fig. 13 (dotted curves). This
smaller coupling may in fact be more nearly representative of the
intrinsic nature of the CuO2 planes. Initial work on Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8-,[87]
which has no chains, is also interpretable in terms of a similarly
modest value of l.

In the earlier work of Sulewski _et al_.[21] and Thomas _et al_.,[30]
similar approaches were applied to polycrystalline and reduced-_T_c
YBa2Cu2O7-_x_ samples, respectively. In the latter case the coupling
spectrum was very similar to that which we find for fully oxygenated
YBa2Cu3O7, but a substantially larger mass enhancement, l   10, was
originally reported in Ref. [30]. In that work a plasma frequency of  
24 000 cm-1, i.e., n /_m_b = 6.0 x 1021 cm-3/_m_e, was used, which is
about the same value we have used for our 93-K material. Since the area
in the low-frequency (coherent) peak is much smaller in the
oxygen-deficient samples, this leads to the much larger estimate for the
coupling in their work. In our own work on oxygen-deficient samples with
_T_c near 60 K, using the same limit of integration as for the 93-K
material, we obtain lower values of n /_m_b, and estimates for l between
about 3 and 5. In Fig. 13 we include t -1(_o_) and _l_(_o_) for the _T_c
= 60-K film sample for which conductivity sums were given in Fig. 12.
The inclusion of conductivity from higher frequencies in estimating n
/_m_b could account for the higher estimate for l in the original work
on oxygen-reduced YBa2Cu3O7-_x_.[30]

In the strong-coupling approach to the conductivity discussed earlier,
the characteristic frequency scale (_o_ <= 1000 cm-1) associated with
the mass enhancement is considerably higher than that for the
heavy-Fermion compounds (_o_ < 50 cm-1), while the magnitude of the
coupling is much lower. This approach is presumed to describe an
interaction between holes (or holons) and spin-related excitations (or
spinons) associated with the Cu. Within this context one may consider
various non-Fermi-liquid approaches,[83, 84, 85, 86] as well as more
conventional heavy-Fermion approaches.[84, 85, 86] A detailed
calculation of the quasiparticle residue in a _t_-_J_ model with Neel or
an RVB order[90] shows a low-frequency mass enhancement of t /_J_, which
occurs below a characteristic energy J, where J is the antiferromagnetic
exchange energy. Values of t /_J_ of order 1-3 are not at all
unreasonable,[91] however, they place the models in an intermediate
range where calculations tend to be quite difficult. Although the
formalism we have used here [Eq. (2)] is similar to that used for the
heavy fermions, the result for the scattering rate appears to be
fundamentally different. In particular, as we have reported previously,
"the inelastic contribution to #/_t_ * is of order _kT_ + _t_o,
suggesting a nearly localized Fermi liquid or that Y,Ba2Cu3O7 is at the
edge of the regime in which a Fermi-liquid theory is well defined.[31]
This linearity of 1/_t_ * in the frequency domain has a direct
correspondence with the linearity of r versus T, and provides an early
example of _apparently non-Fermi-liquid behavior_ in the normal state of
a cuprate superconductor.

(b) _Charge excitation picture._ As an alternative to the above
approach, one can divide the normal-state conductivity into two distinct
components: a narrow Drude (or free-carrier) peak at low frequency,
which may be modified to allow for weak coupling to phonons (_l_ <=
0.5), and a broad mid-infrared contribution or "mode". In

Figure 13: (a) Frequency-dependent scattering rate and (b) mass
enhancement derived from the (_a_-_b_)-plane conductivity data as
described in the text, are shown for a _T_c   93-K (solid curve), and a
_T_c   60-K (dashed curve) YBa2Cu3O7-_x_ film. The dotted curve shows
the effect of subtracting off a chain contribution to the conductivity
(based on Ref. [37]) before performing the frequency-dependent
scattering analysis. An overall coupling strength of l   1 to 3 to a
broad spectrum extending up to about 1000 cm−1 (n−l) is inferred from
this approach to the infrared data.

this weak-coupling approach the "mid-infrared conductivity" is defined
to be the difference between a calculated "ordinary" free-carrier
conductivity and the measured spectrum. In YBa₂Cu₃O₇ the conductivity
decreases monotonically from ω = 0 up to above 10 000 cm⁻¹, thus the
term mid-infrared "mode" may be misleading. Phenomenologically, the
strong- and weak-coupling pictures are opposite endpoints on a
continuous spectrum of models in which the coupling becomes
progressively weaker as more and more of the infrared conductivity is
ascribed to sources other than a single free-carrier band.

A specific example of a decomposition of the YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (_a-b_)-plane
conductivity into a free-carrier component and a background conductivity
is shown in Fig. 14. The free-carrier conductivity is calculated from
the Eliashberg equations as discussed by Bickers _et al._, [92] with a
carrier density of n = 2.0 x 10² cm⁻², a renormalized elastic scattering
rate of 150 cm⁻¹ and a coupling of λ = 0.5 to a (phonon) spectrum
extending up to 500 cm⁻¹. The background conductivity is obtained by
subtracting this free-carrier term from the measured conductivity. In
the frequency range below 10 000 cm⁻¹ about $\frac{2}{3}$ of the
conductivity is in this slowly varying background contribution, and
about $\frac{1}{3}$ of the conductivity is in the free-carrier
contribution. While this approach classifies the conductivity, it does
not explain its origin. To do so one must attribute the background
conductivity to a specific physical process, one proposal for which is a
severly broadened charge-transfer excitation (of holes) from oxygen to
copper. In this picture the conductivity reflects the presence of a
low-lying charge excitation in the planes.

As mentioned earlier, the presence of conductivity in the mid-infrared
is closely related to the absence of a pronounced reflectivity minimum
and the broadened nature of the plasma edge in the reflectivity.
Electronic inhomogeneity, especially in the carrier density, can also
contribute to the width of the plasma edge [i.e., the abruptness with
which the reflectivity drops in the vicinity of the zero crossing of
ϵ₁(ω)]. It has not been shown experimentally that this is a negligible
effect, although for the fully oxygenated YBa₂Cu₃O₇ one expects a high
degree of homogeneity. It is possible that a significant fraction of the
mid-infrared conductivity in YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is chain related, as mentioned
earlier.

### Superconducting state

In this section we examine the very unusual properties of YBa₂Cu₃O₇ in
the superconducting state. We discuss the gaplike feature in σ₁(ω) at
500 cm⁻¹ (≃ 8kT_(c)) which appears near T_(c), and show that the area
missing from the conductivity due to this gap gives an accurate estimate
of the low-temperature penetration depth. Unconventional aspects,
including the temperature dependence, the large energy gap (2Δ_(a − b) =
8kT_(c)), and possible evidence for fluctuation effects above T_(c) are
discussed. The possibility of a second gap in the infrared spectra with
a smaller, more conventional magnitude is also considered. We find no
clear evidence for such a feature in either the (_a-b_)-plane
reflectivity or conductivity. Experiments with the electric field
polarized perpendicular to the planes do show evidence for a lower
energy scale (∼ 3kT_(c)) in the superconducting state. Finally, we
compare the YBa₂Cu₃O₇ reflectivity with similar data from the cubic
oxide superconductor Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ (T_(c) ≃ 30 K). [70]
Qualitatively, the infrared behavior of these two superconductors is
strikingly similar. Applying the same analysis to both sets of data
yields a conventional energy scale, 2Δ_(c) ≃ 4kT_(c), for
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃, and the highly unconventional result 2Δ_(a − b) ≃
8kT_(c) for the (_a-b_)-plane response of YBa₂Cu₃O₇.

#### The characteristic energy 2Δ_(a − b) ≃ 8kT_(c)

In the (_a-b_)-plane data from YBa₂Cu₃O₇, the enhancement of the
low-frequency reflectivity for T < T_(c) [Fig. 5(a)] leads to a
reflectivity ratio, R_(s) /R_(n), which is peaked at ≃ 500 cm⁻¹ (Fig.
1). In both the absolute conductivity shown in Figs. 5 and 6, and the
conductivity ratios σ_(s) /σ_(n) in Fig. 8, there is a corresponding
threshold at approximately 500 cm⁻¹ above which the superconducting
conductivity rises rapidly back to the normal-state value. From these
observations we identify a characteristic energy scale of about 500 cm⁻¹
(≃ 60 meV, ≃ 700 K, ≃ 8kT_(c))

Figure 14: (a) Deconstruction of the measured normal-state conductivity
at 105 K (solid line) into a weakly coupled (λ = 0.5) free-carrier part,
peaked at ω = 0, and a background conductivity (dotted lines), which is
the difference between the measured conductivity and the calculated
free-carrier term, is shown. In (b) the measured normal- (solid line)
and superconducting-state (dashed line) conductivities are shown along
with the background conductivity from (a) (dotted line). Note that this
background conductivity looks different from σ_(1s)(ω) in that it
approaches σ_(1s)(ω) very gradually at high frequency.

for this gaplike feature. The detailed temperature dependence shown in
Figs. 6 and 7 clearly associates this feature with the superconducting
state.

A simple way in which to view σ_(1s)(ω) is as the superposition of a
free-carrier conductivity spectrum with a gap at 500 cm⁻¹, and a roughly
constant background conductivity at a level of about 1200 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹. The
reproducibility of the data suggests that much of this background
conductivity is intrinsic to the bulk material, however, the possibility
of some extrinsic absorption due to impurity phases or imperfections
near the surface can never be completely ruled out. Assuming that this
background conductivity is intrinsic, _one possible source is the b-axis
chains in YBa₂Cu₃O₇_, which may contribute to the infrared conductivity
if there are mobile, or not too strongly localized holes, on the chains.
A recent polarized measurement of an untwinned crystal has reported a
chain conductivity which is roughly constant at about 1300 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹ for
ω ∼ 2000 cm⁻¹.[37] This is potentially sufficient to account for the
finite value of σ_(1s)(ω) below the 500 cm⁻¹ gap. The question of how
such a chain contribution would appear in a twinned crystal has not been
worked out in detail, although presumably some sort of averaging
(possibly utilizing an effective medium theory) should provide a
reasonable approximation. As discussed in detail later, it is very
difficult to tell from the infrared measurement if there is, in fact, an
additional gap at a lower frequency in this background conductivity.
Within the present context this would correspond to a smaller gap on the
chains [which may be suggested by some nuclear quadrupole resonance
(NQR) experiments[46, 69]].

Another possible source of finite absorptivity below 500 cm⁻¹ is an
anisotropy of the energy gap in k space, as suggested by the _c_-axis
measurements (Sec. III.5). While it is conceptually convenient to assume
that measurements made with the electric field parallel to the planes
are only sensitive to those points in k space which lie within the
plane, this is only true when the penetration depth is much shorter than
the mean-free path.[93] In the _a_-_b_ plane of YBa₂Cu₃O₇ the
penetration depth is large, hence the dynamics are closer to the local
limit in which scattering will mix, to some extent, contributions from
all directions in k space into the (_a_-_b_)-plane response. In this
case, the conductivity should be strictly zero only below the smallest
gap in the system (possibly the _c_-axis gap, as discussed in Sec.
III.5). It is difficult to estimate the extent of this mixing in such a
complex and poorly understood system as YBa₂Cu₃O₇. Schneider[94] has
discussed this point on the basis of a specific model for a highly
anisotropic superconductor.

As discussed in Sec. III.2 and in Sec. IV.2.2 there is too much
uncertainty in σ_(1s)(ω) at low frequency to determine whether the
conductivity actually becomes identically zero below some finite
frequency. In principle, this seems to leave open the possibility of an
unconventional pairing symmetry with modes in the (a-b)-plane gap,
(e.g., _d_-wave pairing), however, the abruptness of the threshold in
σ_(1s)(ω) at ≃ 500 cm⁻¹ (Figs. 6 and 8), and of the drop in R_(s) /R_(s)
(Fig. 1), are both highly suggestive of an _s_-wave gap. Additionally,
the lack of temperature dependence in the infrared data for T < 50 K
seems inconsistent with the existence of excitations to arbitrarily low
energy. This lack of temperature dependence in the infrared data is
consistent with the reported temperature independence of the penetration
depth[45, 46] in the same range, which has also been interpreted as
evidence for _s_-wave pairing symmetry. In view of these results, it
seems highly unlikely that the finite conductivity below 500 cm⁻¹ is
associated with a pairing function with nodes in the _a_-_b_ plane.

#### iv.2.2 Possible evidence for a BCS gap (2Δ ≃ 3.5kT_c)

An interpretation of infrared data from oxygen-deficient crystals in
terms of an energy gap of conventional magnitude (2Δ ≃ 3.5_k_T_c), based
on the criterion of 100

In Fig. 9(b) we have shown the reflectivities in the superconducting
state for crystal No. 1,[36] our epitaxial film, and the film data of
Schutzman _et al.[35]_ These measurements all probe the (_a_-_b_)-plane
response of fully oxygenated (T_(c) ∼ 90 K) YBa₂Cu₃O₇, and show that
very similar results are obtained with crystals and films, even in
different laboratories. Below ω ∼ 150 cm⁻¹ these data show a
reflectivity between about 99.5

This discussion illustrates how difficult it is to resolve issues
centered on the existence of perfect reflectivity at low frequency.
[Problems associated with establishing a region in which σ_(1s)(ω) = 0
at low ω are even more severe, as discussed in Sec. III.2.] In any
event, we are unable to find evidence for a 3.5_k_T_c energy scale in
either the absolute reflectivities or the reflectivity ratios for the
_a_-_b_ plane of YBa₂Cu₃O₇.

#### iii.2.3 The penetration depth and the infrared conductivity

On quite general grounds, one expects that the area that is missing from
the conductivity due to the formation of the superconducting gap (Fig.
15) will appear in a δ function at ω = 0. The δ function, rather than
the gap itself, is the truly unique and essential feature of the
superconducting state. The area in this δ function (_A_) controls the
low-frequency electromagnetic penetration depth, thus the validity of
our infrared data can be tested by using it to calculate the penetration
depth at low temperature. In terms of the infrared conductivity the
penetration depth is given by,

$$\lambda = c/\sqrt{8\,A}\ \ ,$$

where

A = ∫(σ_(1n) − σ_(1s))dω .

In the clean limit (_1/= _ all of the free-carrier conductivity
collapses into the δ function, in which case A = πe²n/2m_(b) = ω₂²/8,
and Eq. (3) reduces to the familiar London result, λ = c/ω_(p). For
finite _1/ξ_ the penetration depth tends to be larger than this limiting
value and one can write A = πe²n_(s)/2m_(b), where n_(s) < n is the
superfluid density. In general, one can calculate A, and hence λ, from
the data without making any assumptions about cleanliness or even the
specific model of the superconducting state. To calculate A in this
general way we use σ_(1s)(ω) at 45 K, and the conductivity at T = 105 K
for σ_(1n)(ω). Below 150 cm¹ we extrapolate σ_(1s)(ω) to ω = 0 as a
constant, however, this extrapolation [compared to setting σ_(1s)(ω) = 0
below 150 cm⁻¹] makes less than 10

In the same manner, the _c_-axis conductivities in Fig. 10(b) can be
used to estimate the strength of the δ function for the out-of-plane
direction. For the c axis, a result corresponding to the formal value
λ ≃ 1μm is thus obtained.

#### iii.2.4 Temperature dependence and fluctuation effects

Although Figs. 5−7 clearly demonstrate that the 8_kT__c_ feature in the
_a-b_ plane is associated with the superconducting state, several
aspects of this temperature dependence are unusual and warrant further
consideration. In Fig. 6, the amplitude of the conductivity at low
frequency drops rapidly below T_(c), but it seems that the
characteristic energy scale over which the conductivity is depressed is
rather insensitive to temperature, as illustrated in Fig. 8(b). For
example, the depression of the conductivity at 80 K has virtually the
same energy range (ω ≲ 500 cm⁻¹) as seen deep in the superconducting
state. This is also apparent in the reflectivity ratios (R_(s)/R_(n)) in
Fig. 7, in which the frequency of the minimum in R_(s)/R_(n) remains
nearly constant as T approaches T_(c). This data strongly suggests an
order parameter which opens much more rapidly below T_(c) than in
mean-field theory. Other evidence for this point of view can be found in
the specific-heat jump which is narrower and drops much more rapidly
below T_(c) than mean-field theory would predict.[42]−[44] Rapid
development of the real part of the energy gap may also be tied to the
absence of an Hebel-Slichter peak below T_(c) in NQR (Refs. 63−69) and
microwave absorption measurements (Refs. 96 and 97).

The size of our (_a-b_)-plane pair breaking energy (8_kT__c_) is roughly
twice the BCS prediction (3.5_kT__c_). Given this observation, rapid
development of order below T_(c) does not seem unreasonable. In
principle, extremely strong coupling could account for an unusually
large reduced gap, but, as discussed in Sec. IV.2.5 strong modification
of the density of states above 2Δ (which should be easily observed if
such strong coupling occurs) is not apparent in our data.
Short-range-order and fluctuation effects can also suppress T_(c)
relative to mean field, particularly in systems with an extremely short
coherence length or lower dimensionality. If short-range order begins to
grow well above T_(c), the local order parameter (which is at least in
part responsible for setting the energy scale we see in the infrared)
could already be well developed at T_(c) even in the absence of
long-range order. Evidence for superconducting fluctuations extending to
temperatures as high as 2_T__c_ has been reported in
resistivity,[98]−[100] specific-heat,[101]

Figure 15: (a) The (_a-b_)-plane conductivity of YBa₂Cu₃O₇ in the normal
state (105 K) and superconducting state (45 K) are shown. The missing
area in the superconducting state, shown by the shaded region, provides
an estimate for the (_a-b_)-plane penetration depth of
$c/\sqrt{8\,A} = 1700$ Å.

and susceptibility [102] studies of YBa₂Cu₃O₇. However, in most cases
these fluctuations have been discussed within the Aslamazov-Larkin
formulation and its variations, which are based on fluctuations about
mean-field behavior and are not expected to provide an appropriate
description of the large-scale-fluctuation effects which would be
necessary to strongly suppress T_(c). As noted in Sec. II, the
conductivity ratios in Fig. 8 may also provide some evidence for
fluctuation effects above T_(c). In the 105-K ratio there is a small
minimum near 500 cm⁻¹ that is reminiscent of the large gap which
develops in the superconducting state. This could be taken as evidence
for local order at temperatures above T_(c), however, it is somewhat
difficult to distinguish this feature from the temperature dependence
that occurs in the normal state, associated with the linear resistivity
and consequent narrowing of the conductivity peak. This difficulty is
due to the fact that characteristic frequencies of the normal and
superconducting state changes are very similar ( ≃ 500 cm⁻¹). One can
speculate that this similarity of energy scales is not merely a
coincidence, but rather a fundamental feature of the layered
copper-oxide superconductors.

#### iii.2.5 Possible Holstein interpretation

As shown by the temperature dependence in Figs. 6 and 7, the
phenomenology of the 500-cm⁻¹ feature is intimately connected with the
transition to superconductivity is fully oxygenated YBa₂Cu₃O₇. Because
of this correlation with superconductivity, it is natural to associate
this absorption threshold with some sort of pair-breaking excitation
with a characteristic energy of 500 cm⁻¹. In principle, another
possibility is that the 500-cm⁻¹ feature is associated with a
higher-order process, involving the simultaneous breaking of a
superconducting pair and emission of an intermediate excitation. In a
conventional superconductor this is referred to as a Holstein process
and the emitted boson is a phonon. [6-8] In this section we consider the
possibility that the 500-cm⁻¹ feature which is prominent in the infrared
data could be associated with such a Holstein process. To investigate
this possibility we have used a generalized Eliashberg theory, allowing
for finite mean-free path and coherence length. [92] The Eliashberg
equations are solved at the Matsubara points along an imaginary
frequency axis, and continued to the real axis by Pade approximates to
obtain σ(ω). Inputs to the calculation include carrier density, elastic
scattering rate, temperature, and the fluctuation spectrum, α²F(ω).
Describing the 500-cm⁻¹ feature as a Holstein effect requires a
fluctuation spectrum peaked at about 300 cm⁻¹ with a total coupling
strength of λ ≃ 1.5. This coupling spectrum implies a T_(c) of about 80
K, thus this interpretation of the infrared data would lead to a fairly
complete phenomenology of the superconducting mechanism. One of the
problems with this approach is that it predicts a superconducting gap at
about 200 cm⁻¹ which is not seen in the data. In addition, the fit to
the infrared data between 400 and 1400 cm⁻¹ is not very good despite the
wide range of parameters available, and the temperature dependencies
implied by this model in both the normal and superconducting state for
σ(ω) and $\sigma_{\rm dc}$ are also not easily reconciled with measured
values. These problems suggest that describing the 500-cm⁻¹ feature as a
Holstein step is not a meaningful way in which to view the infrared
data.

The association of the 500-cm⁻¹ feature with an elementary pair
excitation seems to be more consistent with the data. Within this
context one can consider the question of whether there are Holstein-like
structures above this 500-cm⁻¹ gap. Using the Eliashberg equations,
again as formulated by Bickers _et al._, [92] this approach does not
lead to a self-consistent solution with T_(c)≤ 100 K. If we do not
constrain T_(c), then a class of solutions consistent with the infrared
data can be found. In these solutions, weak coupling to a high-frequency
excitation is used as a formal device to generate the large gap. This,
in turn, leads to T_(c)≃ 200 K. Below ω≲ 500 cm⁻¹ a coupling of about λ≃
0.5 is required to obtain a reasonable fit to the infrared data (e.g.,
σ_(s)/σ_(n)); however, any attempt to increase the coupling in the
low-frequency range (e.g., ω≲ 1500 cm⁻¹) beyond this amount, leads to
prominent features in the calculated spectra above 500 cm⁻¹ that are not
observed experimentally. The absence of these features in the infrared
data may be interpreted as evidence against a conventional
Eliashberg-like strong-coupling picture for the mechanism of
superconductivity in YBa₂Cu₃O₇.

#### iii.2.6 Comparison with other techniques

In studies of conventional superconductors, tunneling has generally been
the technique which provided the most reliable information about the gap
and coupling spectrum. [8] The high-temperature Cu-O superconductors
have not yielded as easily to this technique [48-54] as many of the
lower-T_(c) materials did. It has been suggested that the short
coherence length intrinsically limits the ability of tunneling to probe
the bulk properties of the high-T_(c) oxide superconductors. [47]
Difficulties in producing an intrinsic surface at the junction interface
may also add to these problems. In most of these studies, the surface of
the superconductor acts as the insulating barrier in the measurements.
Although tunnel junctions exhibiting ideal behavior have yet to be
prepared from the Cu-O superconductors, gaplike features appearing at
the superconducting transition are seen in many of the tunneling
studies. The energy scales extracted from these measurements cover a
fairly wide range but seem to be centered near 5−6kT_(c) for YBa₂Cu₃O₇.
[48-54] This is smaller than the 7−8kT_(c) value obtained from the
infrared measurements. In some tunneling studies corrections are made to
account for a lower T_(c) at the junction surface than in the bulk of
the material. These corrections tend to increase the estimates for
2Δ/kT_(c), bringing them more in line with the infrared value.
Anisotropy in the gap parallel and perpendicular to the planes has been
reported by Tsai _et al._[49] who finds an in-plane of 6kT_(c) and an
out-of-plane gap of 3.5 kT_(c). This anisotropy ratio (2:1) is roughly
consistent with our infrared observations. [36] Given the presence of
this large anisotropy, some of the quantitative differences between
tunneling and infrared could reflect the different way in which these
probes average over the Fermi surface of an anisotropic superconductor.
Kirtley[54] has recently proposed an interpretation of tunneling data in
terms of gap anisotropy which is consistent with the (_a_-_b_)-plane and
_c_-axis energy scales we find in the infrared. Also of interest is the
recent report by Geerk _et al.[53]_ in which the energy scale in the
superconducting state shows very little temperature dependence as T
approaches T (similar to our infrared results), although it should be
pointed out that another group has reported a BCS temperature dependence
in tunneling.[48]

Because of the large energy scales involved and improvements in
resolution, the high-_T_c cuprates are the first superconductors in
which the energy gap is accessible to photoelectron spectroscopy. This
technique is complementary to infrared in that it probes the
single-particle density of states (which is gapped at D), rather than
the conductivity (which is gapped at the pair-excitation threshold, 2D).
Recent measurements of Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 − y) show a peak in the
photoemission intensity and a corresponding shift of the photoemission
threshold below _T_c, from which a superconducting energy gap of 2D =
8_kT_c is inferred.[55, 56, 57] These photoemission results confirm the
importance of the 2D_(Δ − b) ≈ 8_kT_c energy scale originally inferred
from infrared measurements of the _a_-_b_ plane of high-quality
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ crystals.[25, 28, 35, 36, 32] The agreement between careful
photo-emission and infrared measurements also appears to disprove the
assertion that the gap cannot be seen in the infrared because of extreme
cleanliness (see Appendix B).

Additional evidence for a redistribution of the electronic density of
states at the superconducting transition is found in Raman-scattering
experiments on both YBa₂Cu₃O₇ and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 − y).[38, 39, 40, 41,
42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59,
60, 61, 62] At _T_c the electronic continuum scattering observed in
these materials is depressed at low frequencies and develops a peak at
higher frequency (near 400-500 cm⁻¹). If the high-frequency peak is
interpreted as arising from excitations across the gap, a
superconducting energy scale of about 7-8_kT_c is inferred. These
studies also report a continuum scattering below the peak in the
superconducting state, which would not be expected in a conventional BCS
superconductor.

A number of authors have reported estimates for the energy gap based on
measurements of low-energy electromagnetic or thermodynamic properties.
These properties, which include specific heat, nuclear relaxation,
microwave absorption, and penetration depth, depend on the gap primarily
through their dependence on the quasiparticle density at finite
temperature in the superconducting state. Gap estimates from these
quantities differ fundamentally from those of spectroscopic probes, in
that they rely on theoretical fit to the temperature dependence of the
data, rather than direct observation of quasiparticle excitations. Both
Loram and Mirza[42] and Junod _et al.[43, 44]_ have noted that the
specific-heat peak associated with the transition to superconductivity
in YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is substantially narrower than the BCS result, and that the
peak height is very large. These observations suggest a rate of decrease
of entropy below _T_c that far exceeds that in a mean-field (BCS)
theory. Loram and Mirza[42] have shown that the width of this peak, and
the drop in the electronic specific heat below the peak, can be fit
using a gap of roughly twice the BCS value (i.e., ∼7_kT_c). In
oxygen-reduced YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) samples the specific-heat jump at _T_c
becomes difficult to observe or disappears completely.[44]

The study of nuclear resonance and the nuclear quadrupole relaxation
rates has been one of the most intriguing and enigmatic subfields in
high-_T_c superconductivity.[63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73,
74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91,
92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107,
108, 109, 111, reproducibility of the absolute reflectivity has not yet
been obtained to our satisfaction, however, the reflectivity ratio,
R_(c)/R_(n) shows a maximum at about 450 cm⁻¹. This result is analogous
to our original result from YBa₂Cu₃O₇, and can be used to infer a
characteristic energy scale of 2Δ_(a − b) ≃ 8kT_(c) for
Bi₃Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 − γ). The steplike drops in reflectivity at about 300
and 500 cm⁻¹ reported by Reedyk _et al._[87] are present in some of our
spectra. An analysis of the temperature dependence of these features
suggests that they may not be associated with the part of the sample
which is metallic in the normal state and superconducting below T_(c).

## V Conclusion

In this article our efforts to probe fundamental properties of the
high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors by studying the temperature and
frequency dependence of the infrared conductivity of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x)
are described. Although it is tempting to vary x and thus study this
system over a wide range of parameter space, potential problems with
electronic inhomogeneity, structural disorder, and reproducibility have
discouraged us from emphasizing such an approach. Instead we have
concentrated primarily on the reproducible properties of the
stoichiometric high-T_(c) superconductor, YBa₂Cu₃O₇. While this limits
the potential scope of our conclusions, it increases our confidence in
the intrinsic value of the results.

We have reviewed what is known of the infrared properties of YBa₂Cu₃O₇,
presented measurements of anisotropy both above and below T_(c), and
discussed possible implications of the normal-state data. Our analysis
of the normal-state conductivity at low frequency leads to a
frequency-dependent scattering rate of order kT + ℏω, which may arise
from an interaction of the carriers with a spin-related spectrum. As we
have previously pointed out,[31] "the inelastic contribution to
ℏ/τ^(*) − 1(ω) is of order kT + ℏω, suggesting a nearly localized Fermi
liquid, or that YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is at the edge of the regime in which a
Fermi-liquid theory is well defined."[31] In the superconducting state,
the salient feature of the infrared data appears to be the large energy
gap observed in the (a-b)-plane response. Detailed temperature-dependent
measurements establish a clear connection between this 500 cm⁻¹ feature
and the superconducting state (Figs. 6-8). At low temperature the data
strongly suggests that this is the _intrinsic superconducting energy gap
associated with the CuO₂ planes_. At finite temperatures unconventional
or even exotic aspects of this gap feature emerge: (i) the transition to
a nonsuperconducting state occurs at a temperature less than half that
expected in mean-field theory, hence 2Δ_(a − b) ≃ 8kT_(c), (ii) the
energy of the gap seems to remain large up to as close to T_(c) as we
can measure reliably, and (iii) evidence for possible fluctuations
toward this gap may be present slightly (∼ 10 K) above T_(c). An
understanding of these unusual phenomena may play a significant role in
elucidating the underlying physics of the novel layered Cu-O
superconductors.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors acknowledge stimulating conversations with P. W. Anderson,
N. E. Bickers, P. Coleman, H. Fukuyama, R. L. Greene, G. Gruner, P. M.
Horn, J. R. Kirtley, K. Kitazawa, H. R. Krishnamurthy, A. P. Malozemoff,
P. A. Lee, A. J. Millis, D. M. Newns, J. Orenstein, P. Pattnaik, K. F.
Renk, T. M. Rice, D. J. Scalapino, A. J. Sievers, J. C. Soo, S. Tajima,
and G. A. Thomas. Valuable technical assistance was received from J.
Calise, G. Komsa, J. Sosik, R. Ruggiero, D. de Laura, and A. Davidson
(Infrared Laboratories). We also thank K. F. Renk and J. Shutzmann for
sharing their data and discussing their unpublished work on YBa₂Cu₃O₇
films.

## Appendix A

It has been proposed that the 500-cm⁻¹ gap which is prominent in the
superconducting state is actually normal-state feature, which simply
becomes exposed at low temperature in the superconducting state.[75]
Intrinsic to this suggestion is the belief that the conductivity is
composed of a low-frequency Drude part, which collapses into a δ
function at the superconducting transition, and a sequence of
mid-infrared modes that account for the remaining conductivity. For the
purpose of examining this proposal we adopt this point of view, which
was previously considered in Sec. IV.1, where such a deconstruction of
σ_(1n)(ω) into such Drude and non-Drude parts was shown in Fig. 14.

Collapsing the entire Drude part of the conductivity into a δ function
at the origin leaves the conductivity shown by the dotted curve in Figs.
14(a) and 14(b). It is this non-Drude part of the conductivity that is
supposed to exhibit the 500-cm⁻¹ gap in this approach. A fundamental
problem with trying to construct the superconducting-state conductivity
in this way is that the model conductivity (dotted curve) invariably
returns to σ_(1n)(ω) much more slowly than the data, shown by the dashed
curve in Fig. 14(b). [The rapid return of σ_(1s)(ω) to σ_(1n)(ω) at
∼ 900 cm⁻¹ is completely reproducible both in our data and that of
Shutzman _et al._[33].] This is the case with every (∼ 50) parameter
choice that we have tried. In order to generate a background
conductivity that returned to σ_(1n)(ω) appropriately, one would require
a Drude conductivity that vanishes abruptly between 500 and 800 cm⁻¹.
This is not possible for any choice of parameters and presumably
violates causality. As a related technical point, we further note that
the observation that ϵ_(1s)(ω) crosses above ϵ_(1n)(ω) at about 550 cm⁻¹
[Fig. 5(c)] cannot be reproduced in a model that collapses the entire
Drude part of σ_(1n)(ω) into a δ function.

In summary, collapsing all of the free-carrier conductivity into the δ
function would cause changes in σ₁(ω) to occur at much higher frequency
seen in the data. One is therefore forced by the data to leave the
conductivity above 500 cm⁻¹ substantially unchanged, while collapsing
most of the lower-frequency conductivity into a δ function at ω = 0
below T_(c). This is the signature of a superconducting energy gap.

## Appendix B

As shown, for example, in Figs. 6 and 8, the superconducting-state
conductivity exhibits a threshold (rapid onset of absorption) at about
500 cm⁻¹. It is quite natural to associate this 500-cm⁻¹ threshold with
a superconducting energy gap in the free-carrier conductivity. It has
been suggested that YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is so clean, however, that one should not
be able to see this energy gap in an infrared measurement. This is
ultimately a quantitative rather than a qualitative question [the gap
does not disappear abruptly as one passes from dirty (l/ξ₀ < 1) to clean
(l/ξ₀ > 1).] In this Appendix we discuss both the assessment of the
degree of cleanliness of YBa₂Cu₃O₇, and the question of whether or not
one should see a gap. This discussion, if necessity, predicated on the
assumption that the low-frequency normal-state conductivity of YBa₂Cu₃O₇
can be described in a more or less conventional way, which may not be
justified. While we have taken the space to respond to this issue here,
it is fair to say that we feel more comfortable describing what the data
does show (see, e.g., Figs. 5−8), rather than arguing about what one
should be able to see.

The clean limit is usually defined by the inequality l > ξ, where l is
the mean-free path and ξ is the coherence length. An equivalent
definition in terms of characteristic frequencies instead of lengths is
πΔτ^(•) ≫  1, where 2Δ is the superconducting energy gap and τ^(•) ⁻¹ is
the (renormalized) low-frequency scattering rate [i.e., the width of the
(Drude) conductivity peak at low ω]. In the following calculations we
have used the Eliashberg equations[92] with a fixed normal-state carrier
density and superconducting energy gap. We have varied the scattering
rate, τ^(•) ⁻¹, and calculated the conductivity in the normal and
superconducting state.

In examining this issue we have found that the degree of cleanliness, as
quantified by l/ξ₀ or πΔτ^(•), is not really the correct measure of how
difficult it is to see the gap in this model. Although it is true that
for fixed 2Δ the gap becomes increasingly more difficult to see as τ^(•)
decreases, it is not true that for fixed τ^(•) ⁻¹ that the gap becomes
more difficult to observe as 2Δ increases. This is a consequence of the
fact that the noise in σ₁(ω) grows like 1/ω² in a clean system, thus
offsetting the corresponding 1/ω² increase in σ₁(ω). One thus finds that
in a system with a uniform level of noise in the reflectivity, that the
level to which that noise must be reduced in order see the gap is
independent of the magnitude of 2Δ. In fact the parameter that
determines how difficult it is to see the gap is τ^(•) ⁻¹/ω_(p). This
result becomes intuitively obvious when one realizes that in a clean
system the difference between the reflectivity and unity is proportional
to τ^(•) ⁻¹/ω_(p) and independent of frequency. In the following we
continue to examine the question of how clean YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is and whether
or not one should be able to see the gap; however, it is noted that the
mathematics surrounding this issue are a bit more complicated than the
statement that "in a clean superconductor you can’t see the gap" would
lead one to believe.

For a superconductor in the extreme clean limit 2Δ is much much greater
than τ^(•) ⁻¹. In this case, which is shown in Fig. 16(a), virtually all
of the area in σ₁(ω) goes into the δ function at ω = 0 in the
superconducting state. The magnitude of σ₁(ω) at 2Δ is so small that the
gap may not be readily observable. In the moderately clean case most of
the area in σ₁(ω) still goes into the δ function, however, there is now
sufficient conductivity at ω = 2Δ to make the gap observable as shown in
Fig. 16(b). In the dirty limit, shown in Fig. 16(c), the conductivity is
essentially constant from dc up to 2Δ, and only a small fraction of the
total area in σ₁(ω) goes into the δ function at ω = 0. In this case
[Fig. 16(c)] the superfluid density is much smaller, and the penetration
depth much larger than in either of the clean cases [Figs. 16(a) and
16(b)] (even though the normal-state carrier density is the same for all
three cases). As an aside, we note that while conductivity sum-rule
related arguments can be used to separate the dirty and clean limits,
they will not generally allow a distinction to be made between the
extremely and moderately clean cases [Figs. 16(a) and 16(b)].

In YBa₂Cu₃O₇ characteristic features of the supercon

Figure 16: Calculated conductivities of a model superconductor for
several values of the scattering rate τ^(•) ⁻¹ are shown. Note that
τ^(•) ⁻¹ is the width of peak in σ_(1n)(ω) (solid lines), and that
πΔτ^(•) = l/ξ₀ in a conventional superconductor. The total area in
σ_(1n)(ω) and the gap (2Δ = 500 cm⁻¹) are the same in each case, while
τ^(•) ⁻¹ is varied as shown. Near T_(c), YBa₂Cu₃O₇ falls into the
intermediate (moderately clean) case, shown in (b), although it should
be noted that the normal-state conductivity does not actually follow a
Drude form.

ducting state are fully developed by 50 K and are well developed even at
temperatures as high as 80 K (Fig. 6). In this temperature range near
T_(c), we use the normal-state conductivity just above T_(c) to estimate
approximately how "clean" YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is. The width of the conductivity
peak is about 150 cm⁻¹ at T = 100 K, thus for a 500-cm⁻¹ gap one obtains
πΔτ^(*) ≃ 5, which corresponds to Fig. 16(b). Looking in more detail,
with a dc conductivity of 20 000 (Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹) (i.e., ρ = 50μΩ cm), this
implies a conductivity of about 2000 (Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹ at 500 cm⁻¹ ( ∼ 8kT_(c)),
which is clearly adequate to see the gap (see, e.g., Fig. 6). These
values indicate that at T ≃ 100 K the conductivity of YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is
consistent with the intermediate case [Fig 16(b)], in which there is
sufficient conductivity at 2Δ to observe a gap in σ₁(ω).

Some of the claims that YBa₂Cu₃O₇ is too clean to see the gap are based
on hypothetical extrapolations of the normal-state data to T = 0. These
extrapolations are quite speculative and should be examined closely,
especially since they lead to results that seem to contradict the
infrared data at intermediate temperatures (e.g., 50 K), where, as noted
above, the 500-cm⁻¹ gap is quite well developed.

## References

* [1] R. E. Glover and M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev. **104**, 844 (1956);
**108**, 243 (1957). * [2] I. Glaver, Phys. Rev. Lett. **5**, 464
(1960). * [3] D. M. Ginsberg and M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev. **118**, 990
(1960). * [4] P. L. Richards and M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev. **119**, 575
(1960). * [5] M. Tinkham, in _Far Infrared Properties of Solids_, edited
by S. Mitra and S. Nudelman (Plenum, New York, 1970). * [6] R. R. Joyce
and P. L. Richards, Phys. Rev. Lett. **24**, 1007 (1970). * [7] G.
Brandli and A. J. Sievers, Phys. Rev. B **5**, 3550 (1972). * [8] W. L.
McMillan and J. M. Rowell, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. D. Parks
(Marcel-Dekker, New York, 1969). * [9] J. G. Bednorz, and K. A. Muller,
Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). * [10] M. K. Wu, J. Ashburn, C. J. Torng,
P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, L. Gao, Z. J. Huang, Y. Q. Wang, and C. W. Chu,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 908 (1987). * [11] P. E. Sulewski, A. J.
Sievers, R. A. Buhrman, J. M. Tarascon, and L. H. Greene, Phys. Rev. B
**35**, 5330 (1987). * [12] Z. Schlesinger, R. L. Greene, J. G. Bednorz,
and K. A. Muller, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 5334 (1987). * [13] U. Walter, M.
S. Sherwin, A. Stacy, P. L. Richards, and A. Zettle, Phys. Rev. B
**35**, 5327 (1987). * [14] J. R. Kirtley, R. T. Collins, Z.
Schlesinger, W. J. Gallagher, R. L. Sandstrom, T. R. Dinger, and D. A.
Chance, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 8846 (1987). * [15] R. T. Collins, Z.
Schlesinger, R. H. Koch, R. B. Laibowitz, T. S. Plaskett, P. Freitas, W.
J. Gallagher, R. L. Sandstrom, and T. R. Dinger, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**59**, 704 (1987). * [16] D. A. Bonn, A. H. O’Reilly, J. E. Greedan, C.
V. Stager, T. Timusk, K. Karamus, and D. B. Tanner, Phys. Rev. B **37**,
1574 (1988). * [17] L. Genzel, A. Wittlin, M. Bauer, M. Cardona, E.
Schonherr, and A. Simon, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 2170 (1989). * [18]
Orenstein, G. A. Thomas, D. H. Rapkine, C. G. Bethea, B. F. Levine, R.
J. Cava, E. A. Rietman, and D. W. Johnson, Jr., Phys. Rev. B **36**, 729
(1987). * [19] K. Kamaras, C. D. Porter, M. G. Doss, S. L. Herr, D. B.
Tanner, D. A. Bonn, J. E. Greedan, A. H. O’Reilly, C. V. Stager, and T.
Timusk, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 733 (1987). * [20] K. Kamaras, C. D.
Porter, M. G. Doss, S. L. Herr, D. B. Tanner, D. A. Bonn, J. E. Greedan,
A. H. O’Reilly, C. V. Stager, and T. Timusk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**,
919 (1987). * [21] P. E. Sulewski, T. W. Noh, J. T. McWhirter, and A. J.
Sievers, S. E. Russek, R. A. Buhrman, C. S. Jee, J. E. Crow, R. E.
Salomon, and G. Meyer, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 2357 (1987). * [22] Z.
Schlesinger, R. T. Collins, M. W. Shafer, and E. M. Engler, Phys. Rev. B
**36**, 5275 (1987). * [23] J. Orenstein and D. H. Rapkine, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **60**, 968 (1988). * [24] K. Kamaras, C. D. Porter, M. G. Doss,
S. L. Herr, D. B. Tanner, D. A. Bonn, J. E. Greedan, A. H. O’Reilly, C.
V. Stager, and T. Timusk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 969 (1988). * [25] Z.
Schlesinger, R. T. Collins, D. L. Kaiser, and F. Holtzberg, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **59**, 1958 (1987). * [26] I. Bozovic, D. Kirillov, A.
Kapitulnik, K. Char, M. R. Hahn, M. R. Beasley, T. H. Geballe, Y. H.
Kim, and A. J. Heeger, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 2219 (1987). * [27] S.
Tajima, S. Uchida, H. Ishii, H. Takagi, S. Tanaka, U. Kawabe, H.
Hasegawa, T. Aita, and T. Ishiba, Mod. Phys. Lett. B **1**, 353
(1988). * [28] Z. Schlesinger, R. T. Collins, D. L. Kaiser, F.
Holtzberg, G. V. Chandrasekar, M. W. Shafer, and T. M. Plaskett, Physica
C **153**, 1734 (1988). * [29] T. Timusk, S. L. Herr, K. Kamaras, C. D.
Porter, D. B. Tanner, D. A. Bonn, J. D. Garrett, C. V. Stager, J. E.
Greedan, and M. Reedyk, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 6683 (1988). * [30] G. A.
Thomas, J. Orenstein, D. H. Rapkine, M. Capizzi, A. J. Millis, N. N.
Bhatt, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**,
1313 (1988). * [31] R. T. Collins, Z. Schlesinger, F. Holtzberg, P.
Chaudari, and C. Field, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6571 (1989). * [32] T. W.
Noh, P. E. Seluski, S. Kaplan and A. J. Sievers, D. K. Lanthrop and R.
A. Burham, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. **99**, 435 (1988). * [33] M.
Suzuki, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2312 (1989). * [34] S. Tajima, H. Ishii, T.
Nakahashi, T. Takagi, S. Uchida, M. Seki, S. Suga, Y. Hidaka, M. Suzuki,
T. Murakami, K. Oka, and H. Unoki, J. Opt. Soc. Am. B **6**, 475
(1989). * [35] J. Schutzmann, W. Ose, J. Keller, K. F. Renk, B. Roas, L.
Schulz and G. Saemann-Ischenko, Europhys. Lett. **8**, 679 (1989). *
[36] R. T. Collins, Z. Schlesinger, F. Holtzberg, and C. Field, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **63**, 422 (1989). * [37] B. Koch, H. P. Geserich and Th.
Wolf, Solid State Commun. (to be published). * [38] Uchida, H. Takagi,
and Y. Tokura, Physica C **162-164**, 1677 (1989). * [39] R. T. Collins,
_et al._ (unpublished). * [40] A. T. Forrester, Phys. Rev. B **110**,
776 (1958). * [41] M. Tinkham and R. E. Glover, Phys. Rev. B **110**,
778 (1958). * [42] J. W. Loram and K. A. Mirza, Physica C **153-155**,
1020 (1988). * [43] A. Junod, A. Bezinge, and J. Muller, Physica C
**152**, 50 (1988). * [44] A. Junod, A. Bezinge, D. Eckert, T. Graf, and
J. Muller, Physica C **152**, 495 (1988); A. Junod, D. Eckert, T. Graf,
G. Triscone, and J. Muller, Physica C **162-164**, 482 (1989).

* [45] L. Krusin-Elbaum, R. L. Greene, F. Holzberg, A. P. Malozemoff,
and Y. Yeshurun, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 217 (1989). * [46] D. R.
Harshman _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 851 (1989). * [47] G. Deutscher
and K. A. Muller, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 1745 (1987). * [48] M. Lee,
A. Kapitulnik, and M. R. Beasley, _Proceedings of the NEC Symposium on
Mechanisms of High-Temperature Superconductivity, Tokyo, Japan, 1988_,
edited by H. Kamimura and A. Oshiyama (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1989). *
[49] J. S. Tsai, I. Takeuchi, J. Fujita, T. Yoshitake, S. Miura, S.
Tanaka, T. Terashima, Y. Bando, K. Iijima, and K. Yamamoto, Physica C
**153**, 1385 (1988). * [50] K. E. Gray, M. E. Hawley, and E. R. Moog,
in _Novel Mechanisms of Superconductivity_, edited by S. A. Wolf and V.
Z. Kreslin (Plenum, New York, 1987), p. 611. * [51] A. Barone, Physica C
**153-155**, 1712 (1988). * [52] M. Gurvitch, J. M. Valles, Jr., A. M.
Cucolo, R. C. Dynes, J. P. Garno, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 1008 (1989). * [53] J. Geerk, X. X. Xi, and G.
Linker, Z. Phys. B **73**, 329 (1988). * [54] R. Kirtley, Int. J. Mod.
Phys. B (to be published). * [55] R. Manzke, T. Buslaps, R. Classen, and
J. Fink, Europhys. Lett. **9**, 477 (1989). * [56] J.-M. Imer, F.
Patthey, B. Dardel, W.-D. Schneider, Y. Baer, Y. Petroff, and A. Zettl,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 336 (1989). * [57] C. G. Olson, R. Liu, A.-B.
Yang, D. W. Lynch, A. J. Arko, R. S. List, B. W. Veal, Y. C. Chang, P.
Z. Jiang, and A. P. Paulikas, Science **245**, 731 (1989). * [58] K. B.
Lyons, S. H. Liou, M. Hong, H. S. Chen, J. Kwo, and T. J. Negran, Phys.
Rev. B **36**, 5592 (1987). * [59] S. L. Cooper, M. V. Klein, B. G.
Pazol, J. P. Rice, and D. M. Ginzberg, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 5920 (1988);
S. L. Cooper, F. Slackey, M. V. Klein, J. P. Rice, E. D. Bukowski, and
D. M. Ginsberg, _ibid._**38**, 11 934 (1988). * [60] A. Yamanaka, T.
Kimura, F. Minami, K. Inque, and S. Takekawa, J. Appl. Phys. **27**,
L1902 (1988). * [61] D. Kirillov, I. Bozovic, T. H. Geballe, A.
Kapitulnik, and D. B. Mitzi, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 11 955 (1988). * [62]
C. Thomsen and M. Cardona, in _Physical Properties of High-Temperature
Superconductors_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore,
1989). * [63] H. Seidel, F. Hentsch, M. Mehring, J. G. Bednorz, and K.
A. Muller, Europhys. Lett. **5**, 647 (1988). * [64] W. W. Warren, Jr.,
R. E. Walstedt, G. F. Brennert, G. P. Espinosa, and J. P. Remeika, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **59**, 1860 (1987). The Cu site assignments in this paper
are incorrect and should be reversed. * [65] W. W. Warren, Jr., R. E.
Walstedt, G. F. Bennett, R. J. Cava, R. Tycko, R. F. Bell, and G.
Dabbagh, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1193 (1989). * [66] M. Takigawa, P. C.
Hammel, R. H. Heffner, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 7371 (1989). *
[67] T. Imai, T. Shimizu, H. Ysuoka, Y. Ueda, K. Yosimura, and K.
Kosuge, Phys. Rev. B (to be published). * [68] P. C. Hammel, M.
Takigawa, R. H. Heffner, Z. Fisk, and K. C. Ott, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**63**, 1992 (1989). * [69] S. E. Barrett, D. J. Durand, C. H.
Pennington, C. P. Slichter, T. A. Freidmann, J. P. Rice, and D. M.
Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 6283 (1990). * [70] Z. Schlesinger, R. T.
Collins, J. A. Calise, D. J. Hinks, A. W. Mitchell, Y. Zheng, B.
Dabrowski, N. E. Bickers, and D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6862
(1989). * [71] D. L. Kaiser, F. Holtzberg, B. A. Scott, and T. A.
McGuire, Appl. Phys. Lett. **51**, 1040 (1987). * [72] G. Koren, A.
Gupta, E. A. Giess, A. Segmuller, and R. B. Laibowitz, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**54**, 1054 (1989). * [73] G. Koren, A. Gupta, and R. J. Baseman, Appl.
Phys. Lett. **54**, 1920 (1989). * [74] F. Wooten, _Optical Properties
of Solids_ (Academic, San Francisco, 1972). * [75] G. A. Thomas and J.
Orenstein (private communication). * [76] K. Kamaras, S. L. Herr, C. D.
Porter, N. Tache, D. B. Tanner, S. Etamad, T. Venkatesan, E. Chase, A.
Inam, X. D. Wu, M. S. Hegde, and B. Dutta (unpublished). * [77] I.
Bozovic, K. Char, S. J. B. Yoo, A. Kapitulnik, M. R. Beasley, T. H.
Geballe, Z. Z. Wang, S. Hagen, N. P. Ong, D. E. Aspnes, and M. K. Kelly,
Phys. Rev. B **38**, 5077 (1988). * [78] T. W. Noh, S. G. Kaplan, and A.
J. Sievers, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 599 (1989). * [79] M. W. Shafer, T.
Penney, and B. L. Olson, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 4047 (1987); M. W. Shafer,
T. Penney and B. L. Olson, R. L. Greene, and R. H. Koch, _ibid._**39**,
2914 (1989). * [80] J. Clayhold, N. P. Ong, Z. Z. Wang, J. M. Tarascon,
and T. Barboux, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 7324 (1989). * [81] Y. Tokura, J.
B. Torrance, T. C. Huang, and A. I. Nazzal, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7156
(1988). * [82] W. F. Brinkman and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. B **2**, 1234
(1970). * [83] P. W. Anderson, Science **235**, 1196 (1987); P. W.
Anderson and Z. Zou, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 132 (1988). * [84] F. E.
Pinkerton, B. C. Webb, A. J. Sievers, J. W. Wilkins, and L. J. Sham,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 1951 (1986). * [85] B. C. Webb, A. J. Sievers,
and T. Mahahlisin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 1951 (1986). * [86] P. E.
Sulewski, A. J. Sievers, M. B. Maple, M. S. Torikachvili, J. L. Smith,
and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 5338 (1988). * [87] M. Reedyk, D. A.
Bonn, J. D. Garrett, J. E. Greedan, C. V. Stager, T. Timusk, K. Kamaras,
and D. B. Tanner, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 11 981 (1988); D. A. Bonn
(private communication). * [88] S. Schmitt-Rink, C. M. Varma, and A. E.
Ruckenstein, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 2793 (1988). * [89] T. M. Rice and
F. C. Zhang, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 815 (1989). * [90] C. L. Kane, P. A.
Lee, and N. Read, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6880 (1989). * [91] M. Schluter
(private communication). * [92] N. E. Bickers, D. J. Scalapino, R. T.
Collins, and Z. Schlesinger, Phys. Rev. B (to be published). * [93] P.
W. Anderson, J. Chem. Solids **11**, 26 (1959); P. L. Richards, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **7**, 412 (1961). * [94] T. Schneider, H. De Raedt, and M.
Frick (unpublished). * [95] K. F. Renk (private communication). * [96]
L. Drabeck, G. Gruner, J-J. Chang, A. Inam, X. D. Wu, L. Nazar, T.
Venkatesan, and D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 7350 (1989). *
[97] D. W. Cooke _et al._ (unpublished). * [98] P. P. Freitas, C. C.
Tsuei, and T. S Plaskett, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 833 (1987). * [99] B. Oh,
K. Char, A. D. Kent, M. Naito, M. R. Beasley, T. H. Geballe, R. H.
Hammond, A. Kapitulnik, and J. M. Graybeal, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7861
(1988). * [100] S. J. Hagen, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 7137 (1988). * [101] S. E. Inderhees, M. B. Salamon, N.
Goldenfield, J. P. Rice, B. G. Pazol, D. M. Ginsberg, J. Z. Liu, and G.
W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 1178 (1988). * [102
