# Pseudogap behavior in single-crystal Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+_d probed by Cu NMR

K. Ishida, K. Yoshida, T. Mito, Y. Tokunaga, Y. Kitaoka, and K. Asayama

Department of Physical Science, Graduate School of Engineering Science,
Osaka University, Toyonaka, Osaka 560, Japan

Y. Nakayama, J. Shimoyama, and K. Kishio

Department of Superconductivity, University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo
113, Japan

21 April 1998

###### Abstract

We report that the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate divided by
temperature, 1/_T_1T, has a broad maximum around _T_* 210 K and  100 K
in underdoped and overdoped single crystals of Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+_d_
(Bi2212) with _T_c = 79 and 77.3 K, respectively, showing the
normal-state spin-gap behavior. One result is that the steep decrease in
the 63Cu Knight shift, _K_(_T_), has been observed below T_(K)^(*) 200 K
and  100 K, suggesting the normal-state pseudogap behavior in
quasiparticle density of states (DOS), which is consistent with the
pseudogap behavior below T_(ARPES)^(*) 170 K revealed on underdoped
Bi2212 from studies of angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy. We
propose that the spin-gap behavior in 1/_T_1T has the same origin as the
pseudogap in the quasiparticle DOS. [S0163-1829(98)51534-2]

In underdoped cuprates, there is considerable evidence that the
pseudogap in the magnetic and electronic excitation spectra is already
formed in the normal state above _T_c . From studies of the magnetic
excitation spectrum, [1-5] the spin-gap behavior was first reported and
the pseudogap in the electronic excitation spectrum later from a variety
of other probes. [6-11] Recent studies by Ding _et al._ and Harris _et
al._ of angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) in underdoped
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+_d_ (Bi2212) revealed that the pseudogap with _d_-wave
symmetry opens below T_(ARPES)^(*) 170 K and 225 K, respectively, and
these authors suggested that the pseudogap develops into the _d_-wave
superconducting gap once phase coherence is established below _T_c .
[7-9] The result was interpreted as evidence in favor of a preformed
_d_-wave gap. The T_(ARPES)^(*) seems to increase above  300 K in the
underdoped Bi2212 with _T_c = 10 K. [7]

It was reported on underdoped YBa2Cu3O6, (YBCO6, 6) that the Knight
shift _K_(_T_) decreases upon cooling from _T_mK , [4] whereas the
spin-lattice relaxation rate divided by temperature, 1/_T_1T, has a
broad maximum around _T_*  150 K far above _T_c but below _T_mK , [1-3]
Recently, this behavior was also found in underdoped Hg-based compounds
with mono- and three CuO2 layers. [12-14] The anomalous suppression in
the spectral weight of the low-energy spin dynamics below _T_* is
referred to as a _spin-gap_ behavior [1] and was confirmed by subsequent
neutron experiments. [5] However, the 1/_T_1T in underdoped La2-xSrCuO4
(LSCO) (Ref. [15]) does not show the spin-gap behavior, but increases
continuously close to _T_c , whereas the spin susceptibility deduced
from the _K_(_T_) in underdoped LSCO undergoes a continuous decrease
below _T_mK , [15-17] On the other hand, Loram _et al._ suggested from
susceptibility and high-resolution specific heat measurements that
_pseudogap_ is developed below _T_mK upon cooling in the normal-state
quasiparticle spectrum. [18] The anomalies around _T_m are also shown
from measurements of Hall coefficients and thermoelectric power in LSCO.
[19] There is as yet no general consensus on a consistent interpretation
of these magnetic anomalies related to the Knight shift and 1/_T_1T.

Even in the NMR community, there is no consensus about this issue. As a
matter of fact, Yasuoka _et al._ insisted that the decrease in 1/_T_1T
below _T_* is ascribed to an opening of a pseudogap in the
antiferromagnetic (AF) spin excitation spectrum, and estimated from the
rapid decrease in 1/_T_1T between _T_c and _T_* that an _activated-gap_
size, Δ_(T₁), is in a range of 13-18 meV for various underdoped
compounds. [20] Although they stressed that this spin gap should not be
directly related to the superconducting gap, they considered that the
appearance of the spin gap is likely to be related to the mechanism of
high-_T_c superconductivity. On the other hand, Williams _et al._
claimed that the reduction in Knight shift from _T_mK is due to the
presence of a pseudogap with the _d-wave symmetry_ in the quasiparticle
density of states (DOS) in the normal state. [21] They analyzed the
decreasing behavior of _K_(_T_) over the entire temperature range by
assuming a gap comparing the pseudogap (_Eg_) and the superconducting
gap (Δ_(s)), Δ² = Δ_(s)² + E_(g)² and claimed that since _Eg_ scales to
a maximum value of _T_c in various cuprates, the pseudogap and the
superconducting gap have a similar energy scale. In their analyses,
however, the spin-gap behavior in 1/_T_1T was ignored completely. In
addition, Bobroff _et al._ claimed from the 17O Knight shift, 17_K_(_T_)
measurement on underdoped HgBa2CuO4+_d_ that 17_K_(_T_) extrapolates to
zero at _T_> 0, which indicates the opening of a pseudogap at T^(*)>
_T_c . [12] They considered that the pseudogap temperature _T_* may be
defined as a crossover temperature between the decreasing behavior and
the flat high temperature part in 17_K_(_T_). The different temperature
dependence of 1/_T_1T and _K_(_T_) has never been interpreted in a
consistent manner on a same footing.

Since ARPES, [7-9] tunneling spectroscopy, [22,23] and thermal and
transport measurements [24] are being carried out on Bi2212 single
crystals where the doping level varies from underdoping to overdoping,
it is important to compare the pseudogap behavior probed from various
experimental techniques with those evidenced from the T1 and the Knight
shift data. In this paper, we report Cu-NMR measurements in underdoped
and overdoped Bi2212 single crystals with _T_c  79 and 77.3 K,
respectively. In the underdoped Bi2212, a broad peak in 1/T₁_T_ is
observed at _T_*∼ 210 K and the steep decrease in _K_(_T_) occurs below
T_(K)^(*)∼ 200 K, deviating from a _T_-linear-like gradual decrease
below a much higher temperature, $T_{\rm mK}$. It is pointed out that
the latter result is consistent with the ARPES results that the gap
opens below $T_{\rm ARPES}^{*}$∼ 170 K reported by Ding _et al.[7]_ and
225 K by Harris _et al.[9]_ for samples with almost the same doping
level. The remarkable coincidence among these gaplike features leads us
to the conclusion that the spin-gap behavior in 1/T₁_T_ has the same
origin as the pseudogap in the quasiparticle DOS evidenced from the
Knight shift and the ARPES results. Furthermore, we suggest that the
overdoped Bi2212 also reveals the pseudogap behavior around
T^(*)∼T_(K)^(*)∼ 100 K close to T_(c) = 77 K. The present NMR studies on
the Bi2212 single crystals have provided detailed information about the
nature of the pseudogap not only in the collective AF-spin excitation
spectrum but also in the quasiparticle DOS.

Single crystals of Bi2212 were synthesized by the floating zone method.
Underdoped (T_(c) = 79 K) and overdoped (T_(c) = 77.3 K) single crystals
were prepared by annealing at 600 ^(∘)C under P(O₂) = 4.67× 10⁻⁴ atm for
one day at 400 ^(∘)C and under P(O₂) = 2.1 atm for three days,
respectively. The temperature width in the superconducting transition is
about 3 K for both samples. The superconducting fraction in the
underdoped and overdoped samples is nearly the same, since the size of
the diamagnetic shielding signal for each is comparable. From the
dependence of T_(c) on carrier-hole concentration p per the CuO₂
plane,[25]p in the underdoped and overdoped samples is estimated to be ∼
0.125 and ∼ 0.225, respectively. Cu NMR measurements were performed at
the frequency of 178.1 MHz using a 16 T (4.2 K) superconducting magnet.
The nuclear spin-lattice relaxation time T₁ was measured by the
saturation recovery method. Above 40 K, a single component of T₁ was
determined by fitting the recovery of the nuclear magnetization M(t)
after saturation pulses to the theoretical relaxation function
[M(∞) − M(t)]/M(t) = 0.1exp(−t/T₁)+0.9exp(−t/T₁). To investigate an
evolution of magnetic behavior with respect to hole content, we include
the previous results of the 1/T₁_T_ and the Knight shift in optimally
doped Bi2212 (T_(c)∼ 86 K, p∼ 0.20).[26, 27] NMR data in overdoped
Bi2212 (T_(c)= 77 K) have already been reported by Walstedt _et al.[28]_
The present NMR results in the overdoped Bi2212 are found to be
consistent with their results.

Figure 1 shows the T dependence of the Knight shift parallel to the c
axis, _K_(_T_) in the underdoped and overdoped Bi2212. The _K__(c) in
the underdoped Bi2212 decreases linearly in the range 200 K − 300 K,
whereas it undergoes a marked decrease below T_(K)^(*)∼ 200 K,
exhibiting a small anomaly at T_(c) . In contrast, the _K__(c) in the
overdoped Bi2212 decreases gradually below ∼100 K from a constant value
in temperatures higher than 100 K and steeply below T_(c) = 77.3 K. The
_K__(c) at 4.2 K consists of the orbital contribution from the
3d_(x² − y²) orbit, the superconducting diamagnetic contribution and the
spin shift originating from the residual density of states (RDOS) in the
superconducting state. The presence of RDOS was verified from the
observation of T₁_T_= constant behavior at low temperatures.[26] By
subtracting such _T_-independent contributions from the measured Knight
shift data $K_{\rm obs}$ , the _T_-dependent part of the Knight shift
ΔK(T) =$K_{\rm obs}$−K(4.2 K) is shown in Fig. 2, together with the data
in the optimally doped Bi2212 reported previously.[26, 27] In the
optimally doped Bi2212, since the accuracy of the ⁶³Cu Knight shift is
poor, the Δ¹⁷K(T) deduced from the ¹⁷O Knight shift data reported by
Takigawa and Mitzi are also plotted for comparison.[27] For each
compound, the decreasing behavior in ΔK(T) is different, reflecting
their different doping level.

In order to characterize the respective T variation in ΔK(T) upon
cooling, we plot in Fig. 3 the temperature-derivative change in ΔK(T),
dK(T)/dT as a function of temperature. From the respective behavior for
the underdoped and optimally doped Bi2212 in Fig. 3, two character

Figure 2: _T_-dependent spin part _K_(cs)_(Cu) in _K_(c)_ in underdoped,
optimally doped, and overdoped Bi2212. The _T_-dependent spin part
_K_(s)_(O) in the ¹⁷O Knight shift in optimally doped Bi2212 reported by
Takigawa _et al._ is also plotted by open circles (Ref. [27]). The
anomalies at T_(c), T_(K)^(*), and $T_{\rm mK}$ are indicated by arrows
(see text).

Figure 1: T dependence of the Knight shift parallel to the c axis
(_K_(c)_) in underdoped and overdoped Bi2212. Arrow indicates T_(c) for
each compound.

istic temperatures of $T_{\rm{mK}}$ and $T_{K}^{\rm{g}}$ are defined as
the temperatures where dK(T)/dT begins to increase from zero and
increase steeply from a finite value, respectively. In the optimally
doped Bi2212, $T_{\rm{mK}}$∼ 203 K and $T_{K}^{\rm{m}}$∼ 123 K are
deduced. In the underdoped Bi2212, $T_{\rm{mK}}$ shifts to a temperature
higher than room temperature and $T_{K}^{\rm{g}}$∼ 200 K. By contrast,
$T_{K}^{\rm{g}}$ and $T_{\rm{mK}}$ in the overdoped Bi2212 cannot be
exactly distinguished from one another as seen in Fig. 3.

We turn to the nuclear-relaxation behavior in both the samples. Figure 4
shows the T dependence of 1/T₁T in the underdoped and overdoped Bi2212
together with the data in the optimally doped Bi2212.[26] The 1/T₁T in
the underdoped Bi2212 reveals a broad maximum around $T^{\rm{g}}$∼ 210 K
and continues to decrease without any clear change at T_(c). The value
of 1/T₁T at T_(c) has decreased to 34

Next we discuss the gradual decrease in ΔK(T) as temperature decreases
from $T_{\rm{mK}}$ to $T^{\rm{g}}$. Since 1/T₁T continues to increase
between $T_{\rm{mK}}$ and $T^{\rm{g}}$ where ΔK(T) decreases gradually
as seen in Figs. 2 and 4, the likely cause for the gradual decrease in
K(T) is associated with the development of AF-spin correlations towards
$T^{\rm{g}}$, which is also suggested

Figure 4: T dependence of 1/T₁T in underdoped, optimally doped, and
overdoped Bi2212. Arrows indicate T_(c) and $T^{\rm{g}}$ for each
compound.

Figure 5: Hole content p dependence of characteristic temperatures below
which an anomaly appears in various measurements (see text).

Figure 3: T dependence of T derivatives of the spin part in ⁶³Cu Knight
shift for (a) underdoped, (b) optimally doped, and (c) overdoped Bi2212.
Open circles in (b) are the T derivatives in the ¹⁷O Knight shift
reported by Takigawa (Ref. [27]). Arrows show the anomalies at T_(c) ,
$T_{K}^{\rm{g}}$ , and $T_{\rm{mK}}$.

from the recent theoretical studies.[30, 31] In the gapless quantum-spin
systems such as one dimensional S=1/2 linear spin-chain Sr₂CuO₃ (Ref.
[32]) and three-leg spin-ladder Sr₃Cu₂O₈,[33] the gradual decrease in
susceptibility was observed as temperature decreases. This means that
the gradual decrease in static susceptibility in the underdoped and
optimally doped Bi2212 is not always related with the opening of the
pseudogap. Rather, the sharp decrease in ⁶³K(T) below T_(K)^(π), where
1/T₁T starts to decrease, should be ascribed to the opening of the
pseudogap. We note that an extrapolation of pronounced decrease in ΔK(T)
in the normal state near T_(c) intercepts to the temperature axis at T>0
in the ΔK(T) vs T plot in Fig. 2. This feature is consistent with the ⁷⁰
Knight shift data in underdoped HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) single-layer
cuprates.[12]

To summarize the present NMR results, we present in Fig. 5 the hole
content dependence of T^(*), T_(K)^(*), and $T_{\rm mK}$ together with
various characteristic temperatures at which an anomaly was observed by
other experimental probes. Oda _et al._ reported that the in-plane
resistivity starts to deviate downward from a T-linear-like behavior
below T_(p)^(*) and that the uniform susceptibility χ(T) starts to
decrease gradually below T_(ππ).[24] As seen in Fig. 5, it is obvious
that T^(*)∼T_(K)^(π)∼T_(p)^(*)∼$T_{\rm ARPES}^{\pi}$, which increase
with decreasing hole content. This agreement in various characteristic
temperatures suggests strongly that the pseudogap opens not only in the
AF-spin excitation spectrum at low energy around ${\bf Q}$=(π, π) but
also in the quasiparticle DOS. Furthermore, the tunneling spectroscopy
on the same optimally doped Bi2212 reveals that the normal-state
pseudogap opens in the quasiparticle DOS around 120 K close to T^(*)∼
130 K.[23] Convincing evidence is increasing to indicate that the
pseudogap in the quasiparticle DOS and the spin gap observed in 1/T₁T
has the same origin in a series of Bi2212 single crystals where the
doping level varies from underdoping to overdoping. By contrast, other
characteristic temperatures, $T_{\rm mK}$ and
$T_{\rm\it m\it x\it x\it}$, below which the Knight shift and the
susceptibility decrease gradually, respectively, have nothing to do with
the pseudogap formation, but provide a signature for the development of
AF-spin correlations.

It is still a key issue whether the pseudogap is associated with a _spin
gap_ signaling a non-Fermi-liquid state based on a concept of a
spin-charge separation,[34] or a normal-state precursor of the d-wave
superconducting gap[35] or a precursor to a spin density wave state.[30,
36] At the present stage, we cannot determine an origin of the
pseudogap. However, we suggest from the present NMR result that the
pseudogap and the superconducting gap are the same in origin, since the
anomaly of 1/T₁T in the underdoped Bi2212 is not observed at T_(c).

In order to settle the above issue, it is important to inspect whether
T^(*), T_(K)^(*), and $T_{\rm ARPES}^{\ast}$ continue to increase when
the holes are decreased near the superconducting to nonmetallic and
magnetic phase boundaries. To check this, we remark that further
systematic experiments are planned on the same Bi-based single crystals.

We thank O. Narikiyo and K.Miyake for stimulating discussions. This work
has been partially supported by NEDO for the Industrial Science and
Technology Frontier Program, and by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific
Research in Priority Areas(’Anomalous metallic state near Mott
transition") from the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Culture.

## References

* [1] H. Yasuoka, T. Imai, and T. Shimizu, in _Strong Correlation and
Superconductivity_, edited by H. Fukuyama, S. Maekawa, and A. P.
Malozemoff (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1989), p. 254. * [2] W. W. Warren,
Jr. _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1193 (1989). * [3] M. Takigawa
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 247 (1991). * [4] H. Alloul, T. Ohno, and
P. Mendels, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 1700 (1989). * [5] J. Rossat-Mignod
_et al._, Physica B **186-188**, 1 (1993). * [6] For example, see
Physica C **282-287** (1997). * [7] H. Ding _et al._, Nature (London)
**382**, 51 (1996). * [8] A. G. Loeser _et al._, Science **273**, 325
(1996). * [9] J. M. Harris _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **54**, R15 665
(1996). * [10] J. Loram _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1740
(1993). * [11] T. Ito, K. Takenaka, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**70**, 3995 (1993). * [12] J. Bobroff _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**78**, 3757 (1997). * [13] Y. Itoh _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **65**,
3751 (1996); (unpublished). * [14] M.-H. Julien _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **76**, 4238 (1996). * [15] S. Ohsugi _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**63**, 700 (1993). * [16] K. Ishida _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**60**, 3516 (1991). * [17] G.-q. Zheng _et al._, Physica C **208**, 339
(1993). * [18] J. W. Loram, K. A. Mirza, J. M. Wada, J. R. Cooper, and
W. Liang, Physica C **235-240**, 134 (1994). * [19] T. Nishikawa _et
al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**, 1441 (1994). * [20] H. Yasuoka, Physica
C **282-287**, 119 (1997). * [21] G. V. M. Williams _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **78**, 721 (1997). * [22] Ch. Renner _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**80**, 149 (1997). * [23] N. Nishida _et al._ (private
communication). * [24] M. Oda _et al._, Physica C **281**, 135 (1997). *
[25] W. A. Groen, D. M. de Leeuw, and L. F. Feiner, Physica C **165**,
55 (1990). * [26] K. Ishida _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**, 1104
(1994); Physica C **263**, 371 (1996). * [27] M. Takigawa and D. B.
Mitzi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 1287 (1994). * [28] R. E. Walstedt, R.
F. Bell, and D. B. Mitzi, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 7760 (1991). * [29] H.
Yasuoka, S. Kambe, Y. Itoh, and T. Machi, Physica B **199-**298**
(1994). * [30] K. Miyake and O. Narikiyo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**,
3821 (1994). * [31] J. Jaklic and P. Prelovsek, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**,
892 (1996). * [32] T. Ami _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 5994 (1995); N.
Motoyama _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 3212 (1996). * [33] M. Azuma
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 3463 (1994); K. Ishida _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **53**, 2827 (1996). * [34] T. Tanamoto, H. Kohno, and H.
Fukuyama, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**, 2739 (1994). * [35] V. J. Emery and
S. A. Kivelson, Nature (London) **374**, 434 (1995). * [36] P. Monthoux
and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4261 (1994).
