# Temperature dependence of the upper critical field of FeSe single
crystals

S. I. Vedeneev,^(1, 2) B. A. Piot,¹ D. K. Maude,¹ and A. V. Sadakov²

¹Laboratoire National des Champs Magnetiques Intenses,
CNRS-UJF-UPS-INSA, 25 avenue des Martyrs, 38042 Grenoble, France

²PN. Lebedev Physical Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, 119991
Moscow, Russia

###### Abstract

We present a careful study of the resistive superconducting transition
in FeSe single crystals down to T = 40 mK in continuous magnetic fields
up to 30 T applied perpendicular and parallel to the ab plane. In the
**H∥**e geometry the temperature dependence of the resistive upper
critical field H_(c2)^(*), determined as the field at which the in-plane
resistivity in the transition region is 90

2013 18 April 2013 10.1103/PhysRevB.87.134512 PACS number(s): 74.62.Bf,
74.10.+v, 74.20.Mn, 74.70.Dd

## I Introduction

In 2008, Hsu _et al._1 reported on the observation of superconductivity
with T_(c) ∼ 8 K in the tetragonal phase of the layered iron
chalcogenide FeSe (β-FeSe). Subsequent work has revealed resistivity
onsets for the superconducting transition at temperatures as high as
13.5 K at ambient pressure.2 The highest transition temperatures in this
high-temperature superconductor3 are found when the compound is closest
to stoichiometric, with formula Fe_(1.01)Se.4 The interest in the binary
superconductor FeSe is caused by the relative structural simplicity
among the Fe-based superconductors, and a number of researchers take
FeSe as a model system to study the mechanism of superconductivity in Fe
pnictides and chalcogenides.4-7 At the same time, despite the fact that
the upper critical field H_(c2)(0) is one of the fundamental parameters
for superconductivity, and despite intense experimental investigation,
some ambiguity remains concerning the value, and the temperature
dependence, of H_(c2) in iron-based superconductors. In addition, a
possible Pauli limitation of the upper critical field is currently
debated in the literature.8-10 Due to the low T_(c), FeSe is an
excellent choice to investigate the superconducting and normal state
transport properties in the T → 0 limit. In this paper we present a
careful study of the resistive superconducting transition in the iron
chalcogenide FeSe over a wide range of temperature down to 40 mK. We
describe in addition an experimental study of the temperature dependence
of the resistive upper critical field H_(c2)^(*) in FeSe crystals. The
magnetotransport measurements were performed in dc magnetic fields up to
9 T in a Quantum Design physical property measurement system (PPMS-9)
from 1.8 to 20 K and in a 30-T-resistive magnet at the National High
Magnetic Field Laboratory in Grenoble. We note that measurements of the
upper critical fields H_(c2)(T) in FeSe single crystals at temperatures
down to 0.35 K in a static magnet up to 35 T were performed very
recently by Lei _et al._11 Unlike our experiments, the H_(c2) was
determined by measuring the magnetic field dependence of radio-frequency
penetration depth. Moreover, in Ref. 11 the normal direction of FeSe
crystal plane was (101) rather than (001) for our samples grown at low
temperatures, making the two investigations fundamentally different.

## II Experiment

The investigated crystals FeSe_(x) were grown by a KCl-solution-melt
free growth method.12 The crystals have a plateletlike shape and
mirrorlike surfaces with typical dimensions (2.5-3) mm × (1.5-2) mm ×
(50-60) μm. The quality of the crystals was systematically verified by
measurements of the dc resistance, ac susceptibility, x-ray diffraction,
and scanning electron microscopy. The actual cationic composition of the
samples used was measured at 20-60 different points on the crystal with
a step of 100-200 μm, and the scatter in the data was less than 2

Figure 1 in the upper part shows scanning electron micrographs of
as-grown FeSe_(0.9) crystals with different shapes where the composition
measurement points are denoted by crosses. X-ray diffraction pattern (a)
shows the (001) and (004) peaks of the tetragonal (T), plus three peaks
of the hexagonal (H) FeSe phase. X-ray diffraction pattern (b) has only
the (00N) peaks of the tetragonal phase suggesting that the
crystallographic c axis is perpendicular to the plane of the platelike
crystals.

A four-probe contact configuration, with symmetrical positions of the
low-resistance contacts ( < 1Ω) on both ab surfaces of the sample was
used for the measurements of R_(ab) and R_(c) resistances. The
temperature and magnetic field dependence of the resistances
R_(ab)(T, H) and R_(c)(T, H) were measured using a lock-in amplifier
driven at ≈10.7 Hz. The ac current applied was 50 μA for in-plane and
0.5 mA for out-of-plane resistance measurements. The transport current
was in the ab plane of the crystals and orthogonal to the field. A RuO₂
thermometer was used to measure the local temperature of the sample. The
field sweep rate dH/dt = 0.5 T/min at temperatures 30-150 mK and 1 T/min
at higher temperatures was chosen in order to avoid eddy current
heating. The temperature was continuously recorded during each
measurement sweep. The measured resistances were then converted to the
respective resistivities ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) using the crystal dimensions
which were measured with a high resolution optical microscope. For the
low temperature magnetotransport measurements, the crystals were placed
directly inside the mixing chamber of a Kelvinox top-loading dilution
refrigerator. The crystals were studied with the magnetic field **H**
applied either parallel or perpendicular to the c axis. In the latter
case a configuration with the in-plane transport current **J**
perpendicular to **H** was used. To summarize the properties of the
investigated crystals, we have regrouped in Table 1 the data of
tetragonal phase percent T_(c), slopes (dH_(c2|bc)^(*)/dT)_(T_(c)^(′))
and (dH_(c2|ab)^(*)/dT)_(T_(c)^(′)), upper critical fields
H_(c2|bc)^(*)(0) and H_(c2|ab)^(*)(0), coherence lengths at zero
temperature ξ_(ab) and ξ_(c).

## III Results and discussion

In Fig. 2 (main panel) we show the temperature dependence of the
in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab) for five crystals No. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6
grown in different crucibles. Their zero-field temperature region of the
transition defined by the 10

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the in-plane
resistivity (ρ_(ab)) as a function of temperature for FeSe samples with
different tetragonal phase concentrations. The arrow indicates the
tetragonal-to-orthorhombic structural transition. The inset (a) shows an
enlarged view of the resistivity near T_(c). The inset (b) shows the
critical temperature for superconductivity (T_(c)) determined from
ρ_(ab) as a function of the percent concentration of the tetragonal FeSe
phase.

Figure 1: (Color online) Top: scanning electron micrographs of as-grown
FeSe_(0.9) crystals with different shapes where the composition
measurement points are denoted by crosses. Bottom: (a) x-ray diffraction
pattern showing the peaks of the tetragonal (T), and hexagonal (H) FeSe
phases. X-ray diffraction pattern (b) shows only the (00N) peaks of the
tetragonal phase.

magnetization curves were close to the temperatures of the
superconducting transition determined from the cross point of two
extrapolated lines drawn for the resistivity data around T_(c).[12]

One can see that our crystals have the typical temperature dependencies
of the in-plane ρ_(ab) resistivity for FeSe crystals, and the values of
the residual resistivity ρ_(ab)(0) in crystals determined by linearly
extrapolating the curves to zero temperature are comparable with the
lowest value previously reported for FeSe (see, e.g., Refs. [13, 14,
15]). The in-plane resistivity of the crystals shows an almost linear
temperature dependence at temperatures T < 200 K, and the slope
Δρ_(ab)/ΔT lies between 0.6 and 1.3 μΩcm/K. The curves ρ_(ab)(T) have a
characteristic feature at T ∼ 80 K related to the
tetragonal-to-orthorhombic phase transition (marked by arrow) which has
been observed previously in FeSe.[1, 5, 15] As may be seen from Fig. 2
[main panel and the inset (b)] and Table 1, the slope Δρ_(ab)/ΔT and the
magnitude of T_(c) increase with increasing tetragonal phase
concentration.

Figure 3 shows the zero-field ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) as a function of the
temperature for two samples No. 1 and No. 2. The ρ_(c) data are divided
by 3 and 4. As for the case of ρ_(ab)(T), the resistivity ρ_(c) curves
give an almost linear "metallic" temperature dependence. A parameter
often used to characterize the interlayer coupling is the anisotropy of
the resistivity ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab). The largest anisotropy ratio found here is
ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) = 4 just above T_(c), indicating that the FeSe system is
nearly three dimensional. We find that the anisotropy ratio in the
zero-magnetic field is practically temperature independent for all
samples. Such a behavior of the anisotropy ratio suggests that in-plane
and out-of-plane transport in FeSe share the same scattering mechanism.

In Fig. 4 we report the temperature dependencies of the in-plane ρ_(ab)
resistivity for crystal No. 6 with T_(c) (midpoint) = 10.4 K for applied
magnetic fields up to 9 T with direction perpendicular to the ab plane
of the crystal. As is clear from Fig. 4, with increasing magnetic
fields, the onset of superconductivity shifts to lower temperatures
gradually. However, the resistive superconducting transitions do not
show any field-induced broadening. Hence, it can be concluded that in
the H∥c geometry the vortex-liquid state region is very narrow or even
absent in FeSe. This is similar to FeTeSe system.[16]

The magnetic field dependence of resistivity ρ_(ab)(H) of the sample No.
2 at various temperatures with the field direction perpendicular (a) and
parallel (b) to the ab plane of the crystal is presented in Fig. 5. At
low temperature, the curves ρ_(ab)(H) are almost parallel with respect
to each other in the transition region. When the temperature is close
but below T_(c), the superconducting transition broadens. With
increasing magnetic fields, the onset of superconductivity shifts to
lower temperatures gradually for both magnetic field directions, but the
resistive transition becomes considerably wider in the H∥ab geometry as
compared with those in the H∥c configuration. Such behavior of the
resistive transition in the H∥ab geometry can be explained by the
vortex-liquid state similar to cuprates. It should be noted that at the
determination of the temperature dependence of the resistive upper
critical field in the case of a broadened superconducting transition
different criteria can lead to a different temperature dependence for
H_(c2)^(*)(T).[17] Therefore, we determined the temperature dependence
for the resistive upper critical field H_(c2)^(*) by two different
means.

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the in-plane ρ_(ab)
resistivity for crystal No. 6 with T_(c) (midpoint) = 10.3 K for applied
magnetic fields up to 9 T with direction perpendicular to the ab plane
of the crystal.

Figure 3: (Color online) The zero-field ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) as a function
of the temperature for two samples No. 1 and No. 2. The ρ_(c) data are
divided by 3 and 4.

Figure 6(a) shows the temperature dependence of H_(c2)^(*) for the
sample No. 2 extracted from the magnetoresistance (MR) curves in Fig.
5(a) measured in the H∥c geometry together with the theoretical
Werthamer, Helfand, and Hohenberg (WHH)[18] curves which describes the
behavior of the upper critical field in conventional type-II
superconductors without spin paramagnetic and spin-orbit effects. As can
be seen from the inset to Fig. 6(a), the H_(c2)^(*) values were obtained
from the fields at which the resistivity of the samples has reached 100

The "data points" shown by open circles were obtained from Fig. 5 by a
linear extrapolation of ρ_(ab)(H) to ρ_(ab)(T) = ρ_(n) as it has been
done previously in, e.g., Refs. [8; 16]. These points are displayed in
order to show roughly a general trend for H_(c2)(T) (the
magnetoresistance in the normal state was taken into account). The onset
ρ_(n)^(ons) was determined at zero resistivity, the field values
corresponding approximately to the onset of flux flow (method 1).

Figure 6(b) also shows the temperature dependence of H_(c2)^(*) for the
sample No. 2 extracted from the MR curves in Fig. 5(a) together with the
WHH curves but with the 100

Before addressing the H_(c2)^(*)(T) data, it is of interest to present
the temperature dependence of the in-plane resistivity of the sample at
low temperatures for the magnetic field perpendicular to the ab plane.
Figure 7 shows a semilogarithmic plot of ρ_(ab)(T) at different fixed
magnetic fields H∥c for the sample No. 2 extracted from the curves in
Fig. 5(a) in order to emphasize the low-temperature behavior. The
transition temperature of superconductivity is suppressed gradually and
at low temperatures, the transition is broadened with increasing
magnetic field. In spite of the strong broadening of the magnetic
transitions one can see in Fig. 7 that the 30 T data at T ≤ 1 K are
almost temperature independent. Thus, we can be certain that the
determination of the H_(c2)^(*) values using the 90

Returning to the determination of the temperature dependence of the
resistive upper critical field in Fig. 6, one can see that for both
methods the determination of

Figure 5: (Color online) Resistive transitions of crystal No. 2 in
magnetic field H∥c (a) and H∥ab (b) at different temperatures.

Figure 6: (Color online) Temperature dependence of H_(c2)^(*) for sample
No. 2 extracted from the MR curves in Fig. 5(a) measured in the H∥c
geometry together with the theoretical WHH curves. The “data points”
shown by open circles were obtained from Fig. 5(a) by a linear
extrapolation of ρ_(ab)(H) to ρ_(ab)(T) = ρ_(n). The red dashed lines
and the arrows in the insets show the methods used to define H_(c2)^(*)
from the measured ρ_(ab)(H) curves (see the text).

lead to similar conclusions; the experimental data obtained from the
ρ_(n) criterion down to T/T_(c) ≃ 0.3 can be entirely described by the
conventional WHH theory. The temperature dependencies of H_(c2)^(*) in
Fig. 6 obtained from the 0.9ρ_(n), 0.5ρ_(n), and $\rho_{n}^{\rm on}$
criteria exhibit an upward curvature at T ≤ 2 K. Analogous results were
obtained on the sample No. 6. From the linear part of the H_(c2)^(*)(T)
dependence near T_(c) as determined from the ρ_(n) criterion, we
obtained the slopes dH_(c2)^(*)/dT_(c) = −1.55 T/K and −2.4 T/K for the
samples No. 2 and No. 6, respectively. It should be recognized that the
strong broadening of the superconducting transition when the temperature
is close to T_(c) leads to a different temperature dependence of
H_(c2)^(*) versus T. Using a WHH-type extrapolation to lower temperature
with H_(c2)^(*)(0) = 0.693(−dH_(c2)^(*)/dT)_(T_(c))T_(c)^(^(′)) we
obtained $H_{c2}^{*}|_{\rm fc}(0)\simeq 34$ T (sample No. 2) and 37 T
(sample No. 6). Taking into account the experimental error, these values
are close to the estimated $H_{c2}^{*}|_{\rm fc}(0)$ in our experiments
from the ρ_(n) criterion. Here, the (dH_(c2)^(*)/dT)_(T_(c)) = −3.9 T/K
(sample No. 2) and −4.5 T/K (sample No. 6) are taken to be the tangent
of H_(c2)^(*)(T) at temperatures close to T_(c) and T_(c)^(^(′)) the
intersection of this tangent with the temperature axis. In case of the
0.9ρ_(n) criterion, we found $H_{c2}^{*}|_{\rm fc}(0)=27.5$ T and 30 T
for samples No. 2 and No. 6, respectively. These values are also close
to the $H_{c2}^{*}|_{\rm fc}(0)$ found in our experiments.

In order to compare the temperature dependence of the H_(c2)^(*) for
different samples, in Fig. 8 we display the reduced critical field
h_(c2) = H_(c2)^(*)/(−dH_(c2)^(*)/dT)_(T_(c))T_(c) as a function of the
reduced temperature T/T_(c) for two investigated samples No. 2 and No. 6
at field orientation $\bf H\|c$ together with the theoretical WHH curve.
The H_(c2)^(*) values are the fields at which the resistivity of the
samples has reached 100

Figure 9 shows the temperature dependence of H_(c2)^(*) for sample No. 2
determined by the two methods applied in

Figure 7: (Color online) Semilogarithmic plot of ρ_(ab)(T) at different
fixed magnetic fields $\bf H\|c$ for sample No. 2 extracted from the
curves in Fig. 5(a). Between 0 and 30 T, the applied magnetic field was
increased in steps of 2.5 T.

Figs. 6(a) and 6(b) but extracted from the MR curves in Fig. 5(b)
measured in the H∥ab geometry together with the theoretical WHH curves
(dashed lines). As is seen from Fig. 9, the data for the H∥ab geometry
obtained by the method 1, depart strongly from the WHH curves. One must
note that in this case, the broadening of the superconducting transition
and the rounding of the top of the transition make it impossible to
define the value of the upper critical field exactly. Because of this,
the departure already depends on the method and criterion chosen for the
determination of H_(c2)^(*). Nevertheless, there are strong reasons to
believe that the H_(c2)^(*) obtained from the ρ_(n) and 0.9ρ_(n)
criteria and determined by the method 1 most closely correspond to true
values of the resistive upper critical field.[19] Similar results were
obtained on the sample No. 1, however, because of the very large values
of the upper critical fields of sample No. 1 in the H∥ab geometry, we
could determine the H_(c2)^(*) values down to T/T_(c) < 0.2 only. In the
H∥ab configuration, the WHH formula predicts the value
H_(c2|ab)^(*)(0) = 54 T with (dH_(c2)^(*)/dT)_(T_(c)) = −5.9 T/K and
55.5 T with (dH_(c2)^(*)/dT)_(T_(c)) = −6.1 T/K for the samples No. 2
and No. 1, respectively, obtained from the 100

In Fig. 10 (main panel) we display the reduced critical field
h_(c2) = H_(c2)^(*)/(−dH_(c2)^(*)/dT)_(T_(c))T_(c) as a function of the
reduced temperature T/T_(c) for the samples No. 1 and No. 2 at field
orientation H∥ab together with the theoretical WHH curve. The H_(c2)^(*)
values are the fields at which the resistivity of the samples has
reached 100

The large deviation from the conventional WHH theory in case of
H_(c2|ab)^(*) geometry in Figs. 9(a) and 10(a) for the data obtained by
method 1 can most likely be explained by a spin-paramagnetic
limitation.[19] Using the energy gap value Δ₀ = 2.2 meV, determined from
specific heat measurements,[20] we can estimate the Clogston
paramagnetic limit[21]$H_{p}(0)=\Delta_{o}/\mu_{B}\sqrt{2}\simeq 15$ T
(μ_(B) is Bohr magneton). If we take the experimental values of
T_(c) = 12 K for sample No. 2 obtained from the 90

Figure 9: (Color online) Temperature dependence of H_(c2)^(*) for sample
No. 2 extracted from the MR curves in Fig. 5(b) measured in the H∥ab
geometry together with the theoretical WHH curves (dashed lines). The
“data points” shown by open circles were obtained from Fig. 5(b) by a
linear extrapolation of ρ_(ab)(H) to ρ_(ab)(T) = ρ_(n).

Figure 10: (Color online) Reduced critical field
h_(c2) = H_(c2)^(*)/(−dH_(c2)^(*)/dT)_(T_(c))T_(c) as a function of the
reduced temperature T/T_(c) for samples No. 1 and No. 2 at field
orientation H∥ab together with the theoretical WHH curve. The H_(c2)^(*)
values are the fields at which the resistivity of the samples has
reached 100

formula H_(p)(0) = 1.84T_(c), which gives H_(p)(0) ≃ 22 T (under the
assumption that 2Δ₀ = 3.5k_(B)T_(c)). Both these values are smaller than
the experimental values of H_(c2|k)^(*)(0) and H_(c2|ab)^(*)(0). A
similar suppression of the paramagnetic effect was also observed in the
conventional layered superconductors NbSe₂ and TaS₂. Owing to the
uncertainty of the paramagnetic limit given by the simple Clogston
formulas, we have previously derived an expression for H_(p)(0) for the
paramagnetic limitation of superconductivity for the field parallel to
the layers based on a Ginzburg-Landau calculation.[22] Using the
equation (8) in Ref. [22] and taking T_(c) = 12 K for the sample No. 2
in 90

We can also estimate the ab-plane and c-axis coherence lengths at zero
temperature from the anisotropic Ginsburg-Landau relations
H_(c2|k)^(*) = Φ₀/2πξ_(ab)² and H_(c2|bb)^(*) = Φ₀/2πξ_(ab)ξ_(c). Using
the data from the p = 0.9ρ_(a) criterion we get for four samples (No. 2,
3, 4, and 6) ξ_(ab) ≃ 32 − 34 A in the ab plane and ξ_(c) ≃ 28.5 − 30 A
in the c direction. We find that an anisotropy parameter
γ = H_(c2|ab)^(*)/H_(c2|k)^(*) = ξ_(ab)/ξ_(c) equals 1.17 and 1.12 for
the samples No. 2 and No. 4, respectively. As in all Fe-based
superconductors, this parameter is unusually low compared to that of
high T_(c) cuprate superconductors (see, e.g., Ref. [23], and references
cited therein). Although in the case of one-layer cuprate Bi-2201 single
crystals γ = 1.9.[22]

It is significant that the anisotropy parameter γ in our FeSe crystals
decreases with decreasing temperature and FeSe becomes nearly isotropic
when the temperature T → 0. This is evident from the inset to Fig. 10
where we display the temperature dependence of the anisotropy parameter
γ = H_(c2|bb)^(*)/H_(c2|k)^(*) for the sample No. 2 obtained from the
100

For conventional layered superconductors, the anisotropy parameter is
usually expressed by the ratio $\gamma=\sqrt{m_{c}^{*}/m_{ab}^{*}}$
between the effective masses of the quasiparticles along the c axis and
the ab plane, which can be related to the transport anisotropy with
$\gamma\simeq\sqrt{\rho_{c}/\rho_{ab}}$ and the upper critical field
anisotropy γ = H_(c2|ab)^(*)/H_(c2|c)^(*).[28] As can be seen from Fig.
3, the resistivity anisotropy of the sample No. 2 near T_(c) equals 4
and then
$\gamma\simeq\sqrt{\rho_{c}/\rho_{ab}}=H_{c2|ab}^{*}/H_{c2|c}^{*}=2$.
That is close to the measured value of γ at T = T_(c) (inset to Fig.
10).

## IV Conclusion

We have studied the resistive superconducting transition in FeSe single
crystals down to T = 40 mK in continuous magnetic fields up to 30 T
applied perpendicular and parallel to the ab plane. In the H∥c geometry
the temperature dependence of the resistive upper critical field
H_(c2)^(*), determined as the field at which the in-plane resistivity in
the transition region is 90

## Acknowledgments

We thank V. V. Rodin and S. G. Chernook for the careful x-ray and
composition studies of the single crystals. The work at LNCMI was
partially supported by EUROMAGNET II under the SP7 transnational access
program of the European Union under Contract No. 228043.

## References

* [1] F. C. Hsu, J. Y. Luo, K. W. Yeh, T. K. Chen, T. W. Huang, P. M.
Wu, Y. C. Lee, Y. L. Huang, Y. Y. Chu, D. C. Yan, and M. K. Wu, Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **105**, 14262 (2008). * [2] Y. Mizuguchi, F.
Tomioka, S. Tsuda, T. Yamaguchi, and Y. Takano, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**93**, 152505 (2008). * [3] S. Medvedev, T. M. McQueen, I. A. Troyan,
T. Palasyuk, M. I. Eremets, R. J. Cava, S. Naghavi, F. Casper, V.
Ksenofontov, G. Wortmann, and C. Felser, Nat. Mater. **8**, 630
(2009). * [4] T. M. McQueen, Q. Huang, V. Ksenofontov, C. Felser, Q. Xu,
H. Zandbergen, Y. S. Hor, J. Allred, A. J. Williams, D. Qu, J.
Checkelsky, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 014522
(2009). * [5] E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, V. Pomjakushin, M. Bendele,
and R. Khasanov, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 024517 (2009). * [6] T. Taen, Y.
Tsuchiya, Y. Nakajima, and T. Tamegai, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 092502
(2009). * [7] B. Buchner and C. Hess, Nat. Mater. **8**, 615 (2009). *
[8] G. Fuchs, S.-L. Drechsler, N. Kozlova, G. Behr, A. Kohler, J.
Werner, K. Nenkov, R. Klingeler, J. Hamann-Borrero, C. Hess, A. Kondrat,
M. Grobosch, A. Narduzzo, M. Knupfer, J. Freudenberger, B. Buchner, and
L. Schultz, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 237003 (2008). * [9] F. Hunte, J.
Jaroszynski, A. Gurevich, D. C. Larbalestier, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A.
McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K. Christen, and D. Mandrus, Nature (London)
**453**, 903 (2008). * [10] S. Haindl, M. Kidszun, A. Kauffmann, K.
Nenkov, N. Kozlova, J. Freudenberger, T. Thersleff, J. Hanisch, J.
Werner, E. Reich, L. Schultz, and B. Holzapfel, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**104**, 077001 (2010). * [11] H. Lei, D. Graf, R. Hu, H. Ryu, E. S.
Choi, S. W. Tozer, and C. Petrovic, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 094515
(2012). * [12] J. I. Gorina, G. A. Kalijuzhaia, M. V. Golubkov, V. V.
Rodin, N. N. Sentjurina, and S. G. Chernook, Crystallogr. Rep. **57**,
585 (2012).

* [13] T. M. McQueen, A. J. Williams, P. W. Stephens, J. Tao, Y. Zhu, V.
Ksenofontov, F. Casper, C. Felser, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**103**, 057002 (2009). * [14] J. Wen, G. Xu, G. Gu, J. M. Tranquada,
and R. J. Birgeneau, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**, 124503 (2011). * [15] M.
de Souzaa, A.-A. Haghighirad, U. Tutsch, W. Assmus, and M. Lang, Eur.
Phys. J. **77**, 101 (2010). * [16] H. C. Lei, R. W. Hu, E. S. Choi, J.
B. Warren, and C. Petrovic, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 094518 (2010). * [17]
D. J. C. Walker, O. Laborde, A. P. Mackenzie, S. R. Julian, A.
Carrington, J. W. Loram, and J. R. Cooper, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 9375
(1995). * [18] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys.
Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [19] S. I. Vedeneev, A. G. M. Jansen, E.
Haanappel, and P. Wyder, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 12467 (1999). * [20] J. Y.
Lin, Y. S. Hsieh, D. A. Chareev, A. N. Vasiliev, Y. Parsons, and H. D.
Yang, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 220507 (2011). * [21] A. Clogston, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **3**, 266 (1962). * [22] S. I. Vedeneev, C. Proust, V. P. Mineev,
M. Nardone, and G. L. J. A. Rikken, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 014528
(2006). * [23] M. Bendele, S. Weyeneth, R. Puzniak, A. Maisuradze, E.
Pomjakushina, K. Conder, V. Pomjakushin, H. Luetkens, S. Katrych, A.
Wisniewski, R. Khasanov, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 224520
(2010). * [24] M. H. Fang, J. H. Yang, F. F. Balakirev, Y. Kohama, J.
Singleton, B. Qian, Z. Q. Mao, H. D. Wang, and H. Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 020509 (2010). * [25] R. Okazaki, M. Konczykowski, C. J. van der
Beek, T. Kato, K. Hashimoto, M. Shimozawa, H. Shishido, M. Yamashita, M.
Ishikado, H. Kito, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, S. Shamoto, T. Shibauchi, and Y.
Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 064520 (2009). * [26] V. G. Kogan, Phys.
Rev. B **66**, 020509(R) (2002). * [27] J.-Y. Lin, Y. S. Hsieh, D. A.
Chareev, A. N. Vasiliev, Y. Parsons, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B
**84**, 220507(R) (2011). * [28] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (Krieger, Malabar, Florida, 1955).
