# Coexistence of bulk superconducting and antiferromagnetic order

in the spin-ladder system Sr₂Ca₁₂Cu₂₄O₄₁

S. Vanishri, D. Braithwaite, B. Salce, C. Marin, and J. Flouquet

_INACSPSMS, CEA-Grenoble, 17 rue des Martyrs, 38054 Grenoble, France_

Received 9 November 2009; revised manuscript received 22 January 2010;
published 10 March 2010

###### Abstract

Combined ac-susceptibility and ac-calorimetry measurements under
hydrostatic pressure on new single crystals of the spin-ladder system
Sr_(14 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₂₄O₄₁ (x=12) in good hydrostatic conditions allow us
to unambiguously establish the phase diagram. We show that bulk
superconductivity and antiferromagnetic order coexist over a wide
pressure range, which is quite rare in strongly correlated systems where
the same electrons participate in superconductivity and magnetic order.
We suggest that this is possible by the special microscopic structure of
this material, containing ladders and chains, with a weak coupling
between the two.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.81.094511 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **81**, 094511 (2010)

## I Introduction

It has long been recognized that antiferromagnetism and
superconductivity are not antagonistic phenomena [1] but should be able
to cohabitate peacefully. In an antiferromagnet, the modulation period
of the moments is typically the interatomic distance whereas the
superconducting coherence length, i.e., the size of the cooper pair, is
usually several tens or hundreds of this distance. The average field
felt by the cooper pair is thus zero. In conventional systems, the Fermi
sea and the local moments are decoupled. The magnetic energy is
therefore rather robust and the coexistence of superconductivity and
antiferromagnetism is the general trend. Good examples are found in the
Chevrel phases and especially in the family of the borocarbides, where
the interplay of rare-earth magnetism with superconductivity is complex,
though the general result is that they are still competing phenomena.
[2] In strongly correlated electron systems, it is likely that the same
carriers will carry the magnetic moment and participate in the Cooper
pairing. Magnetism and superconductivity are therefore intimately
linked, and it is now known that they can actually be cooperative
effects, for example, spin fluctuations are suspected to be the main
pairing mechanism in the superconducting state found close to magnetic
quantum critical points in heavy-fermion systems. [3] However, this does
not necessarily favor coexistence of the two phases which can still be
mutually excluding. Indeed, in most of these systems, superconductivity
appears only on the border of magnetism and, for example, in the
heavy-fermion superconductor CeRhIn₅ where quite large regions of
coexistence have been reported from resistivity measurements,
calorimetry, [4] and NMR (Ref. [5]) studies have shown that the range of
this apparent coexistence is in fact extremely limited, and only
homogeneous in a narrow (0.3 GPa) window around the pressure where the
two ordering temperatures cross. Quite surprisingly, there are
relatively few cases of strongly correlated systems where clear evidence
of homogeneous coexistence of bulk superconductivity and
antiferromagnetism is found. In the high-$T_{\rm C}$ cuprates, the best
example is probably HgBa₂Ca₄Cu₅O_(y) though it is not completely clear
if both phenomena coexist on a microscopic scale. [6] Another
interesting case is found in organic superconductors. One can find both
examples of probable homogeneous coexistence, due to superconductivity
and magnetism being carried by distinct subsystems, [7] and of
microscopically heterogeneous coexistence, allowed by the fact that the
transition with pressure between antiferromagnetism and
superconductivity is first order. [8, 9] Other systems where the
interplay of magnetism and superconductivity exists include the new
iron-pnictide superconductors. [10] In this study, we show that,
contrary to most of these cases where the general trend is that
superconductivity only arises on the border of magnetism, in the case of
the spin-ladder system Sr_(14 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₂₄O₄₁, there is an extremely
wide pressure range where bulk antiferromagnetism and superconductivity
are found, implying a much more peaceful cohabitation between the two
types of order than we have been led to expect.

Although superconductivity in the ladder system Sr_(14 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₂₄O₄₁
was discovered over 10 years ago, [11] the interplay between the
antiferromagnetic (AF) order and superconductivity in this system has
been largely ignored. Sr_(14 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₂₄O₄₁ presents a complex
structure consisting of a stacking of planes of Cu₂O₃ ladders and planes
of CuO₂ chains. For high levels of Ca doping, superconductivity can be
induced by the application of pressure of about 3-4 GPa. [12] The upper
critical field presents a very large anisotropy, and strongly exceeds
the Pauli paramagnetic limit, [13, 14] which suggests that
superconducting order parameter is unconventional [15] but the
superconducting mechanism is so far not established. Two main scenarios
are generally put forward. Dagotto _et al._[16, 17] proposed a model
involving the energy gain by pairing holes due to the formation of
singlets on the ladder rungs. Another scenario proposes a key role of a
change in dimensionality. It is suspected that the application of
pressure might increase the interladder coupling sufficiently to recover
a two-dimensional (2D) situation analogous to the high-$T_{\rm C}$
cuprates. In either case it is likely that superconductivity occurs
within the ladder plane, and that the mechanism somehow involves the
magnetic interactions. Several years ago we showed that the magnetic
order persists at high pressure, [18] where superconductivity occurs,
and that two transition signatures could be seen in the specific heat
implying that there is a coexistence, either homogeneous or
heterogeneous, of the two states. In our previous study, it was not
possible to identify which state corresponded to each transition. In
this new study, we use a recently developed high-pressure
ac-susceptibility technique, combined with ac calorimetry to reexamine
this "cold case." The addition of ac susceptibility for the detection of
the screening by the superconducting state allows us to clearly identify
the two states, and we show that there is strong evidence for bulk
coexistence over a wide pressure range.

## II Experimental details

The growth and characterization of single crystals of Sr₂Ca₁₂Cu₂O₄₁ by
the traveling solvent float-zone technique has been reported
elsewhere.[19] ac-susceptibility and ac-calorimetry measurements were
performed under high pressure in a diamond-anvil cell with argon as the
hydrostatic pressure-transmitting medium. The pressure could be tuned
_in situ_ at low temperature using a purpose-built bellows system,[20]
and was measured using the ruby fluorescence scale. For the ac
susceptibility, a miniature pick-up coil was inserted in the pressure
chamber,[21] and an ac field of 1 Oe at 733 Hz was applied. For the ac
calorimetry, a Au/AuFe thermocouple was attached to the sample with GE
varnish. The sample was heated by a laser, modulated by a mechanical
chopper at about 5600 Hz, and guided to the sample by an optical
fiber.[22]

## III Results and discussion

Typical ac-susceptibility curves are shown in Fig. 1 and the complete
superconducting phase diagram from ac-susceptibility measurements is
shown in Fig. 2. In this experiment, it was not possible to gradually
increase the pressure which tended to increment in jumps of about 1 GPa.
The large points are the most reliable being obtained upon an initial
increase in pressure. The pressure could then be released and gently
reincreased to fill in the gaps (small points). At 3.5 GPa, no trace of
superconductivity was found down to 2.3 K, then on increasing the
pressure to 4.4 GPa, a complete superconducting transition was obtained.
On releasing the pressure, we found an onset of superconductivity at 1.8
K at 4.0 GPa. The superconducting (SC) critical temperature,
$T_{\rm SC}$ initially increases rapidly up to about 10 K at 5 GPa. This
is followed by a plateau, then a very sharp decrease at 5.8 GPa.
$T_{\rm SC}$ then levels off and its pressure dependence is quite weak
above 8 GPa. Above 10 GPa, the transition was still visible up to the
highest pressure measured (15.8 GPa) but with considerably reduced
height. We established with reasonable certainty that this was due to
damage to the pick-up coil as the reduced height was maintained when the
pressure was released below 10 GPa again. In the ac-calorimetry setup,
the signal is a complex function of the sample heat capacity and the
thermal link between the sample and its surroundings. Hence, an anomaly
in the specific heat will show up in the signal amplitude but also in
the phase. In fact, the phase is often a much more sensitive probe. In
Fig. 3 (left), we show traces of $1/T_{\rm ac}$ (referred to as the
amplitude of the signal) and the signal phase, θ. The AF transition is
hardly visible in the amplitude whereas θ shows a clear negative peak at
the Neel temperature, $T_{\rm N}$. At higher pressures, two weak but
clear anomalies are visible, and can be emphasized by the subtraction of
a background signal (Fig. 3 right). Contrary to our previous study, we
can unambiguously identify the superconducting transition by comparison
with the ac-susceptibility data. We find that the peak in the
calorimetry data coincides approximately with the 50

Figure 2: (Color online) Superconducting phase diagram from ac
susceptibility. The large points are measured on initial increasing of
pressure. Small points have been measured after a higher pressure has
been obtained and then released. The arrow indicates the lowest
temperature achieved at 3.5 GPa where no trace of superconductivity was
found.

Figure 1: (Color online) ac susceptibility curves for the
superconducting transitions at selected low pressures (top) and high
pressures (bottom). The decrease in the height of the transition above
10 GPa is due to damage to the pick-up coil (see text).

we show the evolution of the phase signal curves with increasing
pressure. The two anomalies merge into one at about 6 GPa, then separate
again above 7 GPa as $T_{\rm N}$ crosses $T_{\rm SC}$. The AF transition
anomaly could be followed up to 9.5 GPa, and the superconducting anomaly
was visible up to the maximum pressure of 13.4 GPa. The full phase
diagram combining both techniques is shown in Fig. 5.

We have now established the superconducting phase diagram up to much
higher pressure than in previous studies. Our results are qualitatively
similar to the report of Nagata _et al._,[12] though we find that the
optimum pressure range is 5-6 GPa rather than 4 GPa as found previously.
This discrepancy may be due to different pressure conditions. In our
case, the use of argon as pressure-transmitting medium, and the _in
situ_ measurement of ruby fluorescence should provide good
hydrostaticity and reliable pressure determination. However, we believe
that the difference probably comes mainly from the different type of
measurement, using ac susceptibility and specific heat instead of
resistivity. Indeed, in resistivity measurements, it was shown that if
the R= 0 criterion is used instead of the onset, the optimum is shifted
to higher pressure.[12] More importantly, below the optimum pressure, no
indication of bulk superconductivity is found. In the ac-calorimetry
experiment, the superconducting transition was only seen for pressures
higher than 5 GPa whereas recently a sharp decrease in the spin-gap
value was found at 3.8 GPa,[23] and previous reports suggested a closing
of the gap at about 4 GPa.[24]

With increasing pressure, both $T_{\rm SC}$ and $T_{\rm N}$ are
considerably enhanced. It has been suggested that the increase in
$T_{\rm SC}$ is associated with a (small) transfer of holes from the
chains to the ladders.[25] Another key ingredient is that the optimum
value of $T_{\rm SC}$ is strongly linked to remarkable lattice
instability[26] as is often observed for conventional and unconventional
superconductors. The strong increase in $T_{\rm N}$ occurs at about 6
GPa, a slightly higher pressure than the increase in $T_{\rm SC}$ but
lower than the 8.5 GPa reported for the lattice anomaly. However, the
lattice anomaly was measured at room temperature, and could occur at a
lower pressure at low temperature so both the concomitant increase in
$T_{\rm N}$ and decrease in $T_{\rm SC}$ might be driven by changes in
the electronic and magnetic correlations, associated or not with the
lattice

Figure 4: (Color online) Phase of the ac-calorimetry signal at selected
pressures. The transitions are indicated by the full (AF transition) and
open (SC transition) arrows. The identification of the SC transition is
unambiguous from comparison with the ac-susceptibility data. Between 6
and 7 GPa, a single broad transition is observed as the two transition
temperatures cross each other. In this case, the SC arrow is positioned
from the ac-susceptibility data.

Figure 5: (Color online) Phase diagram for the antiferromagnetic and
superconducting phases combining ac-calorimetry and ac-susceptibility
measurements. The criterion for the ac susceptibility is the 50

Figure 3: (Left) Curves of the calculated sample heat capacity and the
signal phase from the ac-calorimetry measurement at 3.7 GPa. The
antiferromagnetic transition is hardly visible in C but appears as a
clear anomaly in the phase. (Right) Phase of the calorimetry signal at
7.2 GPa (top curve). Two anomalies are visible which show up clearly
after a background signal (dotted line) has been subtracted as two
negative peaks (middle curve). The ac-susceptibility signal at a similar
pressure is overlaid (bottom curve), showing that the lower temperature
anomaly corresponds approximately to the midpoint of the superconducting
transition.

instability. We also show that superconductivity exists at least up to
15.8 GPa whereas previous reports stopped at 8 GPa.[12] In fact,
$T_{\rm SC}$ varies surprisingly little with pressure at the highest
pressures reached. $T_{\rm N}$ also varies relatively little at high
pressure where we could follow it up to 9.5 GPa.

Understanding the pressure dependence of $T_{\rm SC}$ also needs
addressing its interplay with the AF order. Although the simultaneous
presence of the two transitions in the specific heat does not completely
prove microscopic coexistence of the two phases, it does prove that bulk
AF order and superconductivity are both present in the sample. This
occurs over a pressure range of at least 6 GPa. This pressure range can
be compared with typical pressure scales of the features in the magnetic
and superconducting phase diagrams which are on the order of only 2-3
GPa. A heterogeneous coexistence due to a first-order transition over
such a pressure range is therefore unlikely. A microscopic coexistence
of the two phases with similar ordering temperatures is of particular
interest in the context of the unconventional pairing mechanism expected
in ladder systems, and we would expect to see some evidence of interplay
between them in the pressure dependence of their ordering temperatures.
From this phase diagram, the interplay between the two ordered states is
not obvious. Nuclear quadrupole resonance/NMR studies[27] concluded that
the magnetic spins both on ladders and chains are magnetically ordered,
although the ordered moment on the ladders is tiny (0.02$\mu_{\rm B}$ is
reported[27]). On the other hand, AF ordering on the ladder can be
understood in the presence of mainly unpaired holes but this would seem
to be incompatible with the existence of the spin gap[28] which implies
that the spin singlet state still exists, and with superconductivity. It
seems likely therefore that, at least when superconductivity occurs, the
AF order is confined to the chains. It is therefore tempting to look at
the compound as two subsystems, with AF order occurring in the chains,
and superconductivity in the ladder planes, and basically no interaction
between the two. This however ignores the fact that the one-dimensional
or 2D description is an oversimplification, and, even if highly
anisotropic, in the end both AF order and superconductivity are
three-dimensional phenomena. It is therefore almost certain that some
interdependencies must exist between the chains and the ladders as
discussed by Vuletic _et al.[25]_ We therefore look for signs of
interplay between the two states. Actually, the pressure dependences of
$T_{\rm SC}$ and $T_{\rm N}$ are qualitatively similar, both showing a
pronounced maximum. This might suggest that they are mutually
reinforcing phenomena. Although we cannot discard this scenario, the
significant difference in the pressure (about 2 GPa) argues against it.
On the other hand, a clear indication can be found at 5.8 GPa where the
increase in $T_{\rm N}$ coincides exactly with the very sharp decrease
in $T_{\rm SC}$ suggesting some competition between the two phases. We
suggest therefore a picture of superconductivity and antiferromagnetism
interfering homogeneously over a large pressure window (4-10 GPa), with
the specificity of a microscopic decoupling between the ladders and the
chains.

## IV Conclusion

Through combined ac-susceptibility and ac-calorimetry measurements under
pressure on the spin-ladder system Sr₂Ca₁₂Cu₂O₄₁, we have unambiguously
determined the antiferromagnetic and superconducting phase diagram,
shedding light on the coexistence of the two phases in this system.
Superconductivity is found to exist up to at least 15 GPa, with an
optimum pressure for bulk superconductivity of 5-6 GPa, somewhat higher
than previously reported values. Superconductivity and antiferromagnetic
order are found to coexist over a large pressure window (4-10 GPa) with
evidence for only weak competition between the phases. We suggest
therefore a picture of superconductivity and antiferromagnetism
interfering homogeneously, with the specificity of a microscopic
decoupling between the ladders and the chains. We hope this work will
stimulate future theoretical studies of superconductivity in spin-ladder
systems to address more explicitly this question.

## Acknowledgments

We thank Louis-Pierre Regnault for valuable discussions. This work was
supported by the Indo-French collaborative project, IFCPAR under Project
No. 3408-4, and by the Agence Nationale de la Recherche through Contract
No. ANR-06-BLAN-0220.

## References

* [1] W. Baltensperger and S. Strassler, Phys. Kondens. Mater. **1**, 20
(1962). * [2] L. C. Gupta, Adv. Phys. **55**, 691 (2006). * [3] J.
Flouquet, G. Knebel, D. Braithwaite, D. Aoki, J. P. Brison, F. Hardy, A.
Huxley, S. Raymond, B. Salce, and I. Sheikin, Acad. Sci., Paris, C. R.
**7**, 22 (2006). * [4] G. Knebel, D. Aoki, D. Braithwaite, B. Salce,
and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 020501 (2006). * [5] Y. Kitaoka,
S. Kawasaki, Y. Kawasaki, H. Kotegawa, and T. Mito, Physica B
**359-361**, 341 (2005). * [6] A. Crisan, Y. Tanaka, A. Iyo, D. D.
Shivagan, P. M. Shirage, K. Tokiwa, T. Watanabe, L. Coseranu, T. W.
Button, and J. S. Abell, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 212508 (2007). * [7] H.
Kobayashi, A. Kobayashi, and P. Cassoux, Chem. Soc. Rev. **29**, 325
(2000). * [8] T. Vuletic, P. Auban-Senzier, C. Pasquier, S. Tomic, D.
Jerome, M. Heritier, and K. Bechgaard, Eur. Phys. J. B **25**, 319
(2002). * [9] I. J. Lee, S. E. Brown, W. Yu, M. J. Naughton, and P. M.
Chaikin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 197001 (2005). * [10] Y. Nakai, K.
Ishida, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**77**, 073701 (2008). * [11] M. Uehara, T. Nagata, J. Akimitsu, H.
Takahashi, N. Mori, and K. Kinoshita, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **65**, 2764
(1996). * [12] T. Nagata, M. Uehara, J. Goto, J. Akimitsu, N. Motoyama,
H. Eisaki, S. Uchida, H. Takahashi, T. Nakanishi, and N. Mori, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **81**, 1090 (1998).

* [13] D. Braithwaite, T. Nagata, I. Sheikin, H. Fujino, J. Akimitsu,
and J. Flouquet, Solid State Commun. **114**, 533 (2000). * [14] T.
Nakanishi, H. Takahashi, N. Takeshita, N. Mori, N. Motoyama, H. Eisaki,
S. Uchida, H. Fujino, T. Nagata, and J. Akimitsu, Physica B **281-282**,
957 (2000). * [15] G. Roux, S. R. White, S. Capponi, and D. Poilblanc,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 087207 (2006). * [16] E. Dagotto, Rep. Prog.
Phys. **62**, 1525 (1999). * [17] E. Dagotto and T. M. Rice, Science
**271**, 618 (1996). * [18] D. Braithwaite, J. Thomasson, B. Salce, T.
Nagata, I. Sheikin, H. Fujino, J. Akimitsu, and J. Flouquet, in
_Frontiers of High Pressure Research II: Application of High Pressure to
Low Dimensional Novel Electronic Materials_, edited by H. D. Hochheimer,
B. Kuchta, P. K. Dorhout, and J. L. Yarger (Kluwer Academic, Fort
Collins, USA, 2001). * [19] S. Vanishri, C. Marin, H. L. Bhat, B. Salce,
D. Braithwaite, and L. P. Regnault, J. Cryst. Growth **311**, 3830
(2009). * [20] B. Salce, J. Thomasson, A. Demuer, J. J. Blanchard, J. M.
Martinod, L. Devoille, and A. Guillaume, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **71**, 2461
(2000). * [21] P. L. Alireza and S. R. Julian, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**74**, 4728 (2003). * [22] A. Demuer, C. Marcenat, J. Thomasson, R.
Calemczuk, B. Salce, P. Lejay, D. Braithwaite, and J. Flouquet, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **120**, 245 (2000). * [23] N. Fujiwara, Y. Fujimaki, S.
Uchida, T. Matsumoto, and Y. Uwatoko, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **69**, 3171
(2008). * [24] Y. Piskunov, D. Jerome, P. Auban-Senzier, P. Wzietek, C.
Bourbonnais, U. Ammerhal, G. Dhalenne, and A. Revcolevschi, Eur. Phys.
J. B **24**, 443 (2001). * [25] T. Vuletic, B. Korin-Hamzic, T. Ivek, S.
Tomic, B. Gorshunov, M. Dressel, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rep. **428**,
169 (2006). * [26] S. Pachot, P. Bordet, R. J. Cava, C. Chaillout, C.
Darie, M. Hanfland, M. Marezio, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. B **59**,
12048 (1999). * [27] S. Ohsugi, K. Magishi, S. Matsumoto, Y. Kitaoka, T.
Nagata, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 4715 (1999). * [28] S.
Katano, T. Nagata, J. Akimitsu, M. Nishi, and K. Kakurai, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **82**, 636 (1999).
