Evidence of unusual hybridization: Electrical resistivity and specific
heat of Y1-_x_Tb_aBa2Cu3O7 single crystals

G. Cao, S. McCall, F. Freibert, M. Shepard, P. Henning, J. E. Crow

National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Florida State University,
Tallahassee, Florida 32306-4005

B. Andraka

Department of Physics, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611

###### Abstract

The electrical resistivity _r_(_T_,_x_) (4 <= T <= 300 K) and specific
heat _C_(_T_,_x_) (0.3 <= T <= 15 K) have been measured on single
crystals of Y1-_x_Tb_aBa2Cu3O7. T_(c) is 91 K and irrespective of Tb
doping. However, the _T_-linear slope of _r_(_T_,_x_) for T > _T_c
increases rapidly with increasing x, and a fit of _r_(_T_,_x_) to A +
_BT_ indicates that the Tb doping primarily alters the slope and much
more weakly impacts on the T >= 0 intercept. The results of the
low-temperature _C_(_T_,_x_), on the other hand, show an anomalously
enhanced electron contribution to _C_(_T_), g. The enhancement of g,
along with a large temperature-independent magnetic susceptibility _kh_
reported earlier, strongly suggests the appearance of strong f
conduction-electron hybridization. It becomes apparent that the Tb-doped
system possesses properties that largely deviate from the well-known
behavior of the other high-_T_c and doped high-_T_c systems, thus
standing out as being anomalous.

In previous papers1-3 we have presented preliminary results of our
earlier studies on magnetic and transport properties for Tb-doped
YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO) single crystals and epitaxial thin films. These studies
have revealed a wide range of unusual properties, which largely deviate
from the well-known behavior of the other doped high-_T_c cuprates. In
particular, the superconducting transition temperature _T_c is
insensitive to Tb doping which is unexpected in that Tb, like Ce and Pr,
is known to show mixed-valent behavior in many oxide systems and other
compounds and, like Ce, does not form in the TbBa2Cu3O7 structure. The
insensitivity of _T_c to Tb doping is, thus, in sharp contrast to the
cases of Pr and Ce doping which have been shown to be very deleterious
to the superconductivity. In addition, the magnetic susceptibility
_kh_(_T_,_H_) for Y1-_x_Tb_xBa2Cu3O7 is extremely anisotropic, and this
anisotropy cannot be explained by simple models including only
single-ion crystal electric-field effects (CEF). _kh_(_T_,_H_) for
Y1-_x_Tb_aBa2Cu3O7 also displays a large temperature-independent
contribution which scales with Tb concentration similar to that reported
for Y1-_x_Pr_aBa2Cu3O7. Finally, a rapid increase in the linear-_T_
slope of _r_(_T_,_x_) with Tb doping is observed for the epitaxial thin
films and single crystals. This feature coupled with the independence of
_T_c on Tb doping is puzzling since many of the models proposed to
explain the linear-_T_ dependence of _r_(_T_) are based on excitations
which also mediate the pairing.

In view of these striking features, it is clear that this system indeed
differs markedly from the other doped cuprates, and further
understanding of how the 4f electron hybridize with other states and the
impact of this hybridization on current models of the physical
properties of these unconventional superconductors may provide some
valuable insight into various theories related to these systems and
superconductivity.

In this paper, we report data on the concentration dependence of
_r_(_T_,_x_) and _C_(_T_,_x_) obtained on a series of single crystals of
Y1-_x_Tb_xBa2Cu3O7 (0 <= x <= 0.4) and compared these results to the
behavior previously reported for the Pr- and Zn-doped YBCO and for the
Tb-doped YBCO epitaxial thin films.

The single crystals used in this study were grown using standard flux
methods4 and characterized by x-ray diffraction, scanning-electron
microscopy, and energy-dispersive x-ray analysis. These studies have
confirmed that the crystals are of high quality with Tb ions uniformly
distributed throughout the crystals. All the crystals were oxygen
annealed at 450 degC in a high-pressure oxygen furnace and after
annealing had sharp superconducting transitions at 91 K. The typical
size of the crystals is of the order 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.2 mm3. The electrical
resistivity was measured using standard four-probe techniques and the
Montgomery method, the magnetization was measured using a commercial
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer, and the
specific heat was performed using a time constant method.

The _r_ab(_T_,_x_) for Y1-_x_Tb_aBa2Cu3O7 single crystals is shown in
Fig. 1(a) for x = 0.1, and 0.32. The substitution of Tb for Y apparently
has little impact on _T_c (91 K), and _T_c for all x is sharp with T <
1.2 K. While _r_ab(_T_,_x_) for all x displays a characteristic
linear-_T_ behavior, i.e., _r_(_T_) = A + _BT_ for T > _T_c [above   200
K for x = 0.30, a slight departure of the data from a straight line is
noted, however, to the first-order approximation, the linearity of
_r_(_T_) above _T_c is still well preserved], it is uncharacteristic for
the slope of the normal-state resistivity to increase rapidly with Tb
concentration x. This phenomena is also observed on epitaxial thin films
of this system, _r_(_T_) for the Tb-doped YBCO films is shown in Fig.
1(b) for x = 0.1, 0.25, and 0.5. A fit of _r_ab(_T_,_x_) to _A_(_x_) +
_B_(_x_)_T_ shows that the Tb doping primarily alters the slope and much
more weakly impacts on the T → 0 intercept, i.e., B(x)=dρ/dT changes by
300

Figure 1: The resistivity ρ(T) vs temperature for
Y_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ single crystals with x=0.10, and 0.32 (a) and
epitaxial thin films with x=0.1, 0.25, and 0.50 (b) the reduced
resistivity ρ(T)/ρ(250 K) vs temperature for the epitaxial thin films
(c).

temperature-independent contribution to ρ(T, x), i.e., A(x) in
ρ(T, x) = A(x) + B(x)T with B(x) remaining essentially unchanged.

These differences between Tb- and Pr-doped YBCO become more interesting
after comparing the low-temperature specific heat C(T) for these
systems. There are several types of excitations which may contribute to
the measured C(T). In particular,
$C(T)=\!C_{\rm e}(T)+C_{\rm ph}(T)+C_{\rm sch}(T)+C_{m}(T)+C_{\rm sf}(T)$,
where $C_{\rm e}(T)\!=\!\gamma T$ is the electronic contribution,
$C_{\rm ph}(T)\!=\!\beta T^{3}$ is the phonon term,
$C_{\rm sch}(T)(\!\sim\!T^{-2})$ represents a contribution due to a
Schottky anomaly resulting from a multileveled system, C_(m)(T) and
$C_{\rm sf}(T)$ are due to magnetic ordering and spin or magnetic
fluctuations, respectively.

Shown in Fig. 4 is C(T) vs T (0.3 ≤ T ≤ 17 K) for a single crystal with
x = 0.32 and mass of 3.3 mg. There are atypical features displayed by
this data. The rapid upturn for T < 1 K, which becomes more evident in a
plot of C/T vs T² (see the inset of Fig. 4), may correspond to a
Schottky contribution, which is reportedly seen but relatively weaker in
the YBCO and the Pr-doped YBCO (Ref. [6]) or due to 4_f_-electron
correlations with a very low characteristic energy scale. The origin of
the broad maximum near T  = 2 K is unknown and appears not to be
magnetic ordering based on the results of magnetic susceptibility.[3]
Interestingly, this maximum resembles ones found in the heavy-fermion
superconductors CeCu₂Si₂ and UBe₁₃, incidently also occurring in the
vicinity of 2 K, and so far there is no accounting for these anomalies.
Measurements of the specific heat in magnetic field which are being
pursued may help address this issue.

The major feature of the data is a large enhancement of the electron
specific-heat coefficient γ. Fitting the C(T) for 4 ≤ T ≤ 10 K to an
electron and phonon contribution, i.e., γ T + βT³, leads to the value of
γ ≈ 180 mJ/mol Tb K² (see the inset of Fig. 4). This value of γ is
extraordinarily large when compared to typical values of metals (≤ ∼ 7
mJ/mol K² for YBCO, for instance) and comparable with γ values obtained
for Pr-doped YBCO, i.e., γ ≈ 200 mJ/mol Pr K² which has been known to
show heavy-fermion-like behavior.[6, 7] The magnitude of the
temperature-independent contribution to magnetic susceptibility χ(T),
χ₀(H∥c), is also found to be unusually large (∼ 3.5 × 10⁻³ emu/mol Tb)
(Refs. [1, 2, 3]) when compared to that typically reported for the rest
of the cuprate oxides, e.g.,
$\chi_{\rm pauli}\!\approx\!10^{-5}\!-\!10^{-4}$ emu/mol for YBCO. In
fact, the Wilson ratio (χ₀/γ in units of 3μ_(B)²/π²k_(B)²) is,
approximately, 4. This parallel increases in both γ and χ₀ for Tb-doped
YBCO is characteristic of strong 4_f_-electron hybridization and is
similar to that reported for Pr-doped YBCO.

Extending the above analysis, without considering Schottky contributions
to C(T), might be controversial. Analyses of the low-temperature C(T)
data for x = 0.1, and 0.32 of the interval 0.3 ≤ T ≤ 0.9 K and including
just the γ T term and a T⁻² Schottky term were performed. It is worth
mentioning that an extrapolation of the higher-temperature (4 ≤ T ≤ 10
K) phonon contribution (β = 0.2 mJ/mol K⁴) indicates that
$C_{\rm phonon}$ at T  = 1 K is less than 1

Figure 4: The specific heat C(T) vs T for a Y_(0.68)Tb_(0.23)Ba₂Cu₃O₇
single crystal. Inset: C(T)/T vs T².

without additional data including _C_(_T_) measurements in magnetic
fields where the Schottky or hyperfine and magnetic ordering
contributions could be more clearly defined. However, it is unlikely
that any specific-heat contribution other than an electron contribution
to _C_(_T_) could be responsible for the large γ values obtained above
for either the 4 ≤ T ≤ 10 K or 0.3 ≤ T ≤ 0.9 K intervals. Actually,
contributions from the magnetic ordering due to Tb ions, if any, could
be very small. For BaTbO₃, for example, which antiferromagnetically
orders at 34 K, the magnetic ordering contributions to _C_(_T_) obtained
from the temperature range of 1.5 ≤ T ≤ 5 K are less than 10 mJ/mol e K
[2, 4, 8]. In addition, there is preliminary evidence that the Tb-doped
YBCO with x = 0.32 magnetically orders in the vicinity of T ≈ 16 K,
i.e., at much higher temperatures compared to the T interval used in the
analysis presented here [2, 3].

Indeed, regardless of the ultimate resolution of the γ value, it is
clear that the electron specific-heat coefficient γ is highly enhanced
and extraordinarily large compared with those typical of ordinary
metallic systems. Such behavior is reflective of strong hybridization of
4f electrons with charge carriers near the Fermi surface in the Tb-doped
system. Similar values of γ and χ₀ in the Pr-doped YBCO have been
reported [3, 6, 7]. However, it is by no means plausible to assume that
the same hybridization mechanism(s) is operative in these two systems,
otherwise it would be difficult to simultaneously explain the
similarities in the impurity concentration dependence of χ₀ and γ and at
the same time address the difference in the concentration dependence of
T_(c)(x) and ρ(T) behavior reported for these systems.

In general, the slope and magnitude of ρ(T) are sensitive to a weighed
average over the excitations spectrum of the electron-excitation
interactions and similarly, T_(c) depends on a different spectral
weight. Based on theories of spin fluctuations [5], for instance, which
are favored by a number of experimental results, T_(c) is directly
proportional to the value of the spin-fluctuation frequency
$\omega_{\rm SF}(T_{c})$, which determines the range of energies over
which the spin-fluctuation-induced interaction is effective, and
strongly impacting on the slope of ρ(T) as well as on T_(c). It has been
claimed that a 10

This study has led to a wide range of unusual observations concerning
the role of Tb in YBCO. The results of electrical resistivity seem to
suggest an unconventional scattering mechanism for carrier transport in
CuO planes that is dependent on the Tb doping to which T_(c), however,
is insensitive. The heavy-fermion behavior indicated by the results of
the specific heat is, on the other hand, reflective of an enhanced
hybridization that is absent in other cuprates, and very likely to be
responsible for all observations which largely deviate from well-known
common features of the other cuprates. The strong Tb concentration
dependence on the dρ(T)/dT, i.e., the slope of the _T_-linear
resistivity for T > T_(c) along with independence of T_(c) on Tb doping,
appears to be inconsistent with most of the phonon and/or
spin-excitation models [9] for the normal and superconducting properties
of high-T_(c) systems.

**This work was supported by National High Magnetic Field Laboratory and
NSF Cooperative Agreement No. DMR-9016241. One of the authors (B.A.)
would like to acknowledge support provided through NSF Grant No.
DMR-9400755.**

## References

* [1] G. Cao, R. J. Kennedy, J. W. O’Reilly, J. E. Crow,
Pernambuco-Wise, and S. T. Ting, Physica B **186-188**, 1022 (1993). *
[2] G. Cao, J. W. O’Reilly, and J. E. Crow, J. Appl. Phys. **75**, 6329
(1994). * [3] G. Cao, F. Freibert, P. F. Henning, S. McCall, M. Shepard,
and J. E. Crow, Physica B **206-207**, 749 (1995). * [4] G. Cao, Ph.D.
thesis, Department of Physics, Temple University, 1992. * [5] P.
Montheux and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4261 (1994); **47**, 6609
(1993). * [6] N. E. Phillips, R. A. Fisher, R. Caspary, A. Amato, H. B.
Radoussky, J. L. Peng, L. Zhang, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **43**,
11488 (1991). * [7] G. Hilscher, E. Holland-Moritz, T. Holubar, H.-D.
Jostarndt, V. Nekvasil, G. Schaudy, U. Walter, and G. Fillion, Phys.
Rev. B **49**, 535 (1994), and references within. * [8] J. B. Bulman, M.
V. Kuric, R. P. Guertin, S. Foner, E. J. Mcnirlf, Jr., G. Cao, J. W.
O’Reilly, J. E. Crow, P. P. Wise, and T. Yuen, J. Appl. Phys. **69**,
4874 (1991). * [9] K. Miyake, T. Matsuura, and C. M. Varma, Solid State
Commun. **71**, 1149 (1989); K. Kadowaki and S. B. Woods, _ibid._**58**,
507 (1986).
