# Distinct superconducting states in the pressure-induced metallic
structures

of the nominal semimetal Bi4Te3

J. R. Jeffries

Condensed Matter and Materials Division, Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA

A. L. Lima Sharma

Materials Physics Department, Sandia National Laboratory, Livermore,
California 94551, USA

P. A. Sharma

Materials Physics Department, Sandia National Laboratory, Livermore,
California 94551, USA

C. D. Spataru

Materials Physics Department, Sandia National Laboratory, Livermore,
California 94551, USA

S. K. McCall

Condensed Matter and Materials Division, Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA

J. D. Sugar

Materials Physics Department, Sandia National Laboratory, Livermore,
California 94551, USA

S. T. Weir

Condensed Matter and Materials Division, Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA

Y. K. Vohra

Department of Physics and Astronomy, San Jose State University, San
Jose, California 95192, USA

Department of Physics, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama 35294, USA

Received 2 August 2011; revised manuscript received 7 September 2011;
published 27 September 2011

###### Abstract

The end members, Bi and Bi2Te3, of the infinitely adaptive
(Bi2)n(Bi2Te3)n series of compounds have not only been revealed to be
topological insulators under the appropriate conditions, but have also
been shown to be superconductors under pressure, suggesting the
potential for bulk superconductor-topological-insulator interfaces and
associated quantum computing applications. Herein, we report the
pressure-dependent evolution of the structure and electrical transport
of the nominal semimetal Bi4Te3, a member of the (Bi2)n(Bi2Te3)n series.
Under pressure, Bi4Te3 undergoes several structural phase
transformations, ultimately yielding a metallic body-centered-cubic
structure exhibiting superconductivity with a maximum T_(c) = 8.4 K at
16.2 GPa. The occurrence of structure-dependent superconductivity in
Bi4Te3 is remarkably similar to the end members of the (Bi2)n(Bi2Te3)n
series, intimating a convergence to high-pressure universal behavior
that may expose the subtle variations that lead to the topological
insulating and superconducting states in these systems.

doi:10.1103/PhysRevB.84.092505

Recently, superconductor-topological-insulator junctions have been
predicted to induce Majorana bound states and the tantalizing prospects
for quantum computing.[1, 2, 3] While this proximity-induced effect
might suffice for quantum computing, the realization of bulk
superconductivity in Cu4Bi2Se3 intimates a more controllable route to
superconducting-topological-insulator interfaces.[4, 5, 6] Furthermore,
the observation of superconductivity under pressure in Bi2Te3 suggests
the general feasibility of tuning between topological insulating and
superconducting states within the same system.[7]

The nominal semimetal Bi4Te3 is a member of the trigonal, infinitely
adaptive (Bi2)n(Bi2Te3)n series, which is composed of Bi and Te planes
assembled from alternating layers of Bi2 and Bi2Te3 building blocks.[8]
The end members of this series, Bi and Bi2Te3, both display topological
insulating behavior, the former through alloying with Sb.[9, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30,
31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48,
49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 6 with lattice
parameters a = 4.3110(34), b = 4.6052(38), and c = 6.2641(38) A with β =
110.22^(∘). The reflections from Bi₄Te₃-II index well to a C2/m space
group, yielding a unit cell volume of 116.70 A³. Presuming that pressure
drives the system into a structure with a lower atomic volume, the unit
cell of Bi₄Te₃-II should be constructed from no fewer than 4 atoms; 4-
and 5-atom unit cells would imply volume collapses of approximately 3

Near 11.5 GPa, another phase transformation occurs, producing a
multiphase sample where Bi₄Te₃-II coexists with Bi₄Te₃-III and
Bi₄Te₃-IV. This multiphase system persists up to approximately 16.5 GPa.
Because of its coexistence with other phases, indexing Bi₄Te₃-III was
not possible. Bi₄Te₃-IV, on the other hand, appears as a single phase
for pressures in excess of 16.5 GPa and is easily indexed to a
body-centered-cubic (bcc) $Im\bar{3}m$ unit cell with a = 3.6702(2) A
and a volume of 49.44 A³ (B₀≈ 120 GPa). With two atoms per unit cell,
the bcc Bi₄Te₃-IV phase, like that of Bi₄Te₃-II, contains fewer than one
formula unit per unit cell and thus must be described with a similar
stoichiometric occupancy of the atomic positions. The high-pressure
Bi₄Te₃-IV phase is effectively a disordered bcc alloy of Bi and Te,
identical to the high-pressure structures of Bi-V and Bi₂Te₃-IV.[12, 14]

Low-temperature ρ(T) data [Fig. 2(a)] reveal the onset of
superconductivity at 8.2 GPa with a T_(c) = 2.1 K. With further
pressure, T_(c) increases slightly followed by a discontinuous increase
in the transition temperature near 13 GPa. At P_(c) = 16.2 GPa, the
superconducting transition temperature reaches a maximum T_(c) = 8.4 K,
very close to the observed maximum T_(c) of Bi (8.4 K) and Bi₂Te₃ (9.4
K) under pressure.[15, 16, 17] For pressures above 16.2 GPa, the
superconducting transition width sharpens, hovering near a width of
about 1 K, and T_(c) decreases monotonically down to T_(c) = 4.1 K at
42.5 GPa.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Low-temperature electrical resistivity ρ(T)
for various pressures (in GPa, denoted by text near each curve)
revealing the onset and development of superconductivity. (b) ρ_(xy)(H)
for various pressures. (c) LDA band structure calculations confirm the
ambient-pressure semimetallic behavior of Bi₄Te₃ and (d) reveal the
pressure-dependent appearance of an electron-like pocket between the L
and H points (green arrows).

Figure 1: (Color online) Selected x-ray diffraction patterns of Bi₄Te₃
under pressure revealing the different structures: Bi₄Te₃-I
($R\bar{3}m$), Bi₄Te₃-II (C2/m), Bi₄Te₃-III, and Bi₄Te₃-IV
($Im\bar{3}m$). Diffraction peaks from the copper pressure marker and
gasket are denoted by a “C” and “G,” respectively. Some of the prominent
Bragg reflections from the Bi₄Te₃-I and Bi₄Te₃-IV structures are
labeled. The pronounced peaks in the multiphase diffraction data at 12.6
GPa are assigned to their respective phases: blue squares, Bi₄Te₃-II;
green circles, Bi₄Te₃-III; orange triangles, Bi₄Te₃-IV.

Magnetotransport measurements [Fig. 2(b)] conducted at 10 K show a clear
change in the Hall resistivity (ρ_(xy)) as a function of pressure. At
ambient pressure, Bi₄Te₃ is best described as a semimetal due to
signatures of ambipolar conduction in Hall effect, Seebeck, and Nernst
measurements.[28] While low carrier mobility precludes a quantitative
analysis of the ambient-pressure magnetotransport, the presence of
electron and hole bands is strongly implied by the qualitative shape of
ρ_(xy)(H). At 8.2 GPa, the sign of ρ_(xy) became negative, but the
nonlinear field dependence of ρ_(xy) clearly remains, implying that
multiband effects still play a role at this pressure. This multiband
behavior yields above 17.8 GPa to a linear field dependence with a
minimum slope near 19.7 GPa. At 8.2 GPa, the low-field slope of ρ_(xy)
implies a carrier concentration of order 10²¹ cm⁻³–a borderline value
between the expectations for a metal and a semimetal or degenerate
semiconductor–while at 31.6 GPa, the ρ_(xy) data suggest a carrier
concentration of order 10²³ cm⁻³–closer to that of a typical metal.

In order to illuminate the multiband transport in Bi₄Te₃, band structure
calculations were performed. These calculations have been restricted to
the ambient-pressure ($R\bar{3}m$) phase, because solutions for the
site-disordered, high-pressure phases II and IV are intractable with the
_ab initio_ DFT routine utilized. Figures 2(c) and 2(d) show the
electronic dispersions along certain high-symmetry directions in the
hexagonal Brillouin zone with k_(z) = 0.5c^(*) (c^(*) is the reciprocal
lattice vector perpendicular to the Bi/Te layers). At ambient pressure
[Fig. 2(c)], a small hole-like section of Fermi surface is visible at
zone center (A), a small electron pocket crosses the Fermi level in the
A-H direction near zone center, and another electron pocket dips near
the Fermi level between the L and H points. This calculation supports
the conclusion that both holes and electrons contribute to transport at
ambient pressure, but also indicates that any realistic transport model
should account for more than two bands. At 5 GPa [Fig. 2(d)], the
zone-center hole band increases in size, the small electron pocket near
zone center remains nearly unaltered, and the electron pocket between
the L and H points crosses the Fermi level. Applied pressure thus causes
large electron-like pockets to appear near the zone edges of the Fermi
surface. The persistence of the zone-center hole pocket and the
appearance of these large electron pockets under pressure explain the
persistent multiband behavior as well as the change in sign of ρ_(xy).

The pressure-dependent evolution of the structure and electrical
transport of Bi₄Te₃ is summarized in Fig. 3. Near 6 GPa, Bi₄Te₃
transforms from its ambient-pressure, $R\bar{3}m$ structure into a
monoclinic C2/m structure similar to elemental Bi.[12] Concomitant with
this structural transformation is the reduction in the value of ρ(10 K)
and a change in the sign of the Hall coefficient, R_(H).
Superconductivity develops out of this Bi₄Te₃-II phase, but with a
relatively low critical temperature of T_(c) = 2.1 K at 8.2 GPa.
Increasing pressure compresses the monoclinic structure, which exhibits
only a slightly stiffer lattice than the Bi₄Te₃-I phase. With the
lattice compression from 6 to 12 GPa, superconductivity is enhanced,
reaching T_(c) = 3.7 K at 12.8 GPa.

Applying further pressure instigates the ingrowth of the bcc phase of
Bi₄Te₃-IV, which manifests a new superconducting state with a T_(c)
greater than twice that of the maximum T_(c) observed in the Bi₄Te₃-II
phase. With increasing pressure, Bi₄Te₃ transforms completely to the bcc
phase and |R_(H)| reaches a minimum, indicating a high-carrier-density
metallic phase. T_(c) reaches a maximum value of 8.4 K at 16.2 GPa.
Pressures above 20 GPa result in an increase in |R_(H)|–corresponding to
a decrease in the carrier concentration–and a simultaneous suppression
of T_(c). The simultaneous occurrence of a high-carrier-density metal
and a maximum in T_(c) upon

Figure 3: (Color online) Pressure-dependent evolution of the structural
and electronic properties of Bi₄Te₃. (a) The equation of state
(volume/atom) of Bi₄Te₃ reveals three pressure-induced structural
transformations; data for Bi (Ref. [12]; open, purple circles) and
Bi₂Te₃ (Ref. [14]; open, gray diamonds) are included. (b) The electrical
resistivity at 10 K, ρ (10 K) (closed symbols, left axis) and the Hall
coefficient, R_(H) (open symbols, right axis) suggest metallization
under pressure. (c) The evolution of superconductivity under pressure
reveals a maximum T_(c) = 8.4 K near 16.2 GPa, within the bcc phase.
Verified error bars represent widths of the superconducting transitions,
while horizontal error bars represent uncertainty in pressure. Data for
Bi (Ref. [15]) and Bi₂Te₃ (Ref. [17]) under pressure are included (open
symbols) for comparison. Inset: scaled evolution of
$T_{c}/T_{c}^{\rm max}$ versus $P/P^{\rm max}$ in the bcc phases of
Bi₄Te₃, Bi₂Te₃, and Bi. In all cases, solid and dashed lines are guides
to the eye.

entering into a bcc crystal structure is also evident in Bi and
Bi₂Te₃[15, 17]. Indeed, the pressure-dependent evolution of T_(c) in the
bcc phases of Bi₄Te₃, Bi₂Te₃, and Bi are strikingly similar [inset Fig.
3(c)].

In summary, Bi₄Te₃ displays two distinct superconducting states arising
from different high-pressure structural modifications: monoclinic
Bi₄Te₃-II, a low-carrier-density multiband metal; and bcc Bi₄Te₃-IV,
which displays archetypal metallic behavior. The striking similarities
between the pressure-dependent structures and evolutions of T_(c) in the
bcc phases of Bi, Bi₂Te₃, and Bi₄Te₃ hint at universal behavior
manifesting under pressure within the (Bi₂)_(m)(Bi₂Te₃)_(n) series.
Understanding how the disparate ambient-pressure states of the
(Bi₂)_(m)(Bi₂Te₃)_(n) series ultimately converge to this universal
high-pressure behavior could provide insights into the conditions
favoring topological insulators and superconductors.

We thank K. Visbeck, J. Park-Klepeis, and C. Kenny-Benson for assistance
and beamline support. Portions of this work were performed under LDRD.
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory is operated by Lawrence Livermore
National Security, LLC, for the US Department of Energy (DOE), National
Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), under Contract No.
DE-AC52-07NA27344. Portions of this work were performed at HPCAT (Sector
16), Advanced Photon Source (APS), Argonne National Laboratory. HPCAT is
supported by CIW, CDAC, UNLV, and LLNL through funding from DOE-NNSA,
DOE-BES, and NSF. Use of the APS, an Office of Science User Facility
operated for the US DOE Office of Science by Argonne National
Laboratory, was supported by the US DOE under Contract No.
DE-AC02-06CH11357. Beamtime was provided through the General User
Proposal program. Sandia is a multiprogram laboratory operated by Sandia
Corporation, a Lockheed Martin Company, for the US DOE NNSA under
Contract No. DE-AC04-94AL85000. Work at Sandia was supported by the LDRD
program. Y.K.V. acknowledges support from DOE-NNSA Grant No.
DE-FG52-10NA29660.

## References

* Fu and Kane [2008]L. Fu and C. L. Kane, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**,
096407 (2008). * Sau et al. [2010]J. D. Sau, R. M. Lutchyn, S. Tewari,
and S. Das Sarma, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 094522 (2010). * Hao and Lee
[2011]L. Hao and T. K. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 134516 (2011). * Qi et
al. [2009]X.-L. Qi, T. L. Hughes, S. Raghu, and S.-C. Zhang, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **102**, 187001 (2009). * Hor et al. [2010]Y. S. Hor, A. J.
Williams, J. G. Checkelsky, P. Roushan, J. Seo, Q. Xu, H. W. Zandbergen,
A. Yazdani, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 057001
(2010). * Fu and Berg [2010]L. Fu and E. Berg, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**,
097001 (2010). * Zhang et al. [2011]J. L. Zhang, S. J. Zhang, H. M.
Weng, W. Zhang, L. X. Yang, Q. Q. Liu, S. M. Feng, X. C. Wang, R. C. Yu,
L. Z. Cao, L. Wang, W. G. Yang, H. Z. Liu, W. Y. Zhao, S. C. Zhang, X.
Dai, Z. Fang, and C. Q. Jin, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. **108**, 24
(2011). * Bos et al. [2007]J. W. G. Bos, H. W. Zandbergen, M.-H. Lee, N.
P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 195203 (2007). * Hsieh et
al. [2009]D. Hsieh, Y. Xia, L. Wray, D. Qian, A. Pal, J. H. Dil, J.
Osterwalder, F. Meier, G. Bihlmayer, C. L. Kane, Y. S. Hor, and R. J.
Cava, Science **323**, 919 (2009). * Roushan et al. [2009]P. Roushan, J.
Seo, C. V. Parker, Y. S. Hor, D. Hsieh, D. Qian, A. Richardella, M. Z.
Hasan, R. J. Cava, and A. Yazdani, Nature (London) **460**, 1106
(2009). * Chen et al. [2009]Y. L. Chen, J. G. Analytis, J.-H. Chu, Z. K.
Liu, S.-K. Mo, X. L. Qi, H. J. Zhang, D. H. Lu, X. Dai, Z. Fang, S.-C.
Zhang, I. R. Fisher, Z. Hussain, and Z.-X. Shen, Science **325**, 178
(2009). * Degtyareva et al. [2004]O. Degtyareva, M. I. McMahon, and R.
J. Nelmes, High Press. Res. **24**, 319 (2004). * Nakayama et al.
[2009]A. Nakayama, M. Einaga, Y. Tanabe, S. Nakano, F. Ishikawa, and Y.
Yamada, High Press. Res. **29**, 245 (2009). * Einaga et al. [2011]M.
Einaga, A. Ohmura, A. Nakayama, F. Ishikawa, Y. Yamada, and S. Nakano,
Phys. Rev. B **83**, 092102 (2011). * Il’ina and Itskevich [1970]M. A.
Il’ina and E. S. Itskevich, Sov. Phys. JETP Lett. **11**, 218 (1970). *
Il’ina and Itskevich [1972]M. A. Il’ina and E. S. Itskevich, Sov. Phys.
Solid State **13**, 2098 (1972); **17**, 154 (1975). * Zhang et al.
[2011]C. Zhang, L. Sun, Z. Chen, X. Zhou, Q. Wu, W. Yi, J. Guo, X. Dong,
and Z. Zhao, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 140504(R) (2011). * Weir et al.
[2000]T. Weir, J. Akella, C. Aracne-Ruddle, Y. Vohra, and S. A.
Catledge, Appl. Phys. Lett. **77**, 3400 (2000). * Jackson et al.
[2006]D. D. Jackson, J. R. Jeffries, W. Qiu, J. D. Griffith, S. McCall,
C. Aracne, M. Fluss, M. B. Maple, S. T. Weir, and Y. K. Vohra, Phys.
Rev. B **74**, 174401 (2006). * Mao et al. [1986]H. K. Mao, J. Xu, and
P. M. Bell, J. Geophys. Res. **91**, 4673 (1986). * Cos and Schouten
[1991]W. L. Cos and J. A. Schouten, J. Appl. Phys. **69**, 6744
(1991). * Hammersley et al. [1996]A. Hammersley, S. Svensson, M.
Hanfland, A. Fitch, and D. Hausermann, High Press. Res. **14**, 235
(1996). * Larson and Von Dreele [1994]A. C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele,
Los Alamos National Laboratory Report LAUR 86-748 (1994). * Toby
[2001]B. H. Toby, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **34**, 210 (2001). * Giannozzi
_et al._ [2007]P. Giannozzi _et al._,
[http://www.quantum-espresso.org]. * Kohn and Sham [1965]W. Kohn and L.
J. Sham, Phys. Rev. **140**, A1133 (1965). * Brugger et al. [1967]R. M.
Brugger, R. B. Bennion, and T. G. Walton, Phys. Lett. A **24**, 714
(1967). * [25]See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.84.092505 for a
description of the semimetal behavior of Bi₄Te₃ under ambient
conditions.
