# Superconductivity and non-Fermi-liquid behavior of La3Pd4Si4 and
Ce3Pd4Si4

F. Kneidinger, H. Michor, and E. Bauer

Institute of Solid State Physics, Vienna University of Technology,
A-1040 Wien, Austria

A. Gribanov, A. Lipatov, and Y. Seropegin

Department of Chemistry, Moscow State University, GSP-1, 119991 Moscow,
Russia

J. Sereni

Div. Bajas Temperaturas, CAB-CNEA, 8400 San Carlos de Bariloche,
Argentina

P. Rogl

Institute of Physical Chemistry, University of Vienna, A-1090 Wien,
Austria

15 April A superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometer was used to study magnetic properties from 2.5 up to 300 K
in fields up to 6 T using polycrystalline specimens of about 20 mg.
Specific heat measurements on about 1 g of polycrystalline Ce₃Pd₄Si₄
were performed at temperatures ranging from 2.5 up to 100 K by means of
an adiabatic step heating method. Additionally, specific heat
measurements in the temperature range between 350 mK and 20 K were
carried on La₃Pd₄Si₄ and Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ samples with a commercial Quantum
Design PPMS ³He relaxation calorimeter in fields up to 1 T. Electrical
resistivity measurements were carried out in a ³He bath top-loading
cryostat with a maximum magnetic field of 12.5 T and for temperatures
from 350 mK up to 300 K. Resistivity was measured with the electrical
current flowing parallel to the applied magnetic field via a four-probe
technique using an ac bridge (Lakeshore 370).

## III Results and Discussion

The XRD analyses indicate that RE₃Pd₄Si₄ phases with La and Ce as rare
earth elements are present as a major phase with a minor amount of
impurity phases. The XRD pattern of La₃Pd₄Si₄ together with the
corresponding Rietveld refinement are shown in Fig. 1, revealing
a = 0.42358(1) nm, b = 0.42900(1) nm, and c = 2.45400(7) nm. Some small
extra XRD peaks could be indexed on the basis of a La₂Pd₃Si₃ phase. The
content of impurities is estimated to be a few percent in each sample.
In the case of Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ these small impurity phases were identified as
Ce₂Pd₃Si₃ (Ce₂Rh_(1.35)Ge_(4.65) type) and CeOPd₂Si₂ (ThCr₂Si₂ type) in
agreement with the Ce-Pd-Si phase diagram [3], where these two phases
were reported as neighboring phases.

### La₃Pd₄Si₄

Both resistivity and heat capacity measurements carried out on La₃Pd₄Si₄
evidence bulk superconductivity below 2 K. Shown in Fig. 2 is the
temperature dependent electrical resistivity ρ of La₃Pd₄Si₄ at zero
field (main panel) and at various externally applied magnetic fields.
Clearly visible is a superconducting transition being located slightly
above 2 K. This transition temperature is in good coincidence with data
reported in Refs. [6] and [7] derived from measurements of the
electrical resistivity and magnetic susceptibility. Metallic behavior
and the importance of _s-d_ scattering in La₃Pd₃Si₄ is quantitatively
revealed from the applicability of the Bloch-Wilson model [18], i.e.,

$$\rho(T) = A\left(\frac{T}{\theta_{D}}\right)^{5}\int_{0}^{\theta_{D}/T} \frac{z^{5}dz}{[\exp(z)-1][1-\exp(-z)]}$$
$$\quad+B\left(\frac{T}{\theta_{D}}\right)^{3}\int_{\theta_{\rm min }/T}^{\theta_{D}/T}\frac{z^{3}dz}{[\exp(z)-1][1-\exp(-z)]}-\kappa\,T^{3}.$$

The Mott-Jones term κ T³ accounts for scattering of conduction electrons
on a narrow d band (e.g., Pd-4d or La-5d in La₃Pd₃Si₄) near to the Fermi
energy [19] and explains the negative curvature in ρ(T) at higher
temperatures. A least-squares fit of this model to the experimental data
(solid line, Fig. 2) reveals a Debye temperature θ_(D) = 155 K, and
κ ≈ 10⁻⁷μΩ cm K⁻³ as well as a minimum phonon energy
$k_{B}\theta_{\rm min}=\hbar\omega_{\rm min}$, with
$\theta_{\rm min}=98$ K. Here $\omega_{\rm min}$ is the frequency
corresponding to the minimum q⃗ value to excite the _s-d_ transitions
[18]. A = 54μΩ cm and B = 8.6μΩ cm are material dependent constants
(compare Fig. 5, too).

The superconducting phase transition is relatively sharp, evidencing
good sample quality. The application of magnetic fields (inset, Fig. 2)
consecutively suppresses superconductivity, and magnetic fields of the
order of 1 T are sufficient to entirely eliminate the superconducting
state. This suppression is accompanied by a slight increase of the width
of the phase transition. The Debye temperature as derived from
resistivity data is significantly lower than that derived from our
specific heat measurements (see below). This might be a result of

Figure 1: (Color online) X-ray powder pattern and Rietveld refinement of
La₃Pd₄Si₄. The inset is a sketch of the crystal structure in projection
along [100].

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependent electrical resistivity ρ
of La₃Pd₄Si₄. The solid line is a least-squares fit as explained in the
text. The inset shows ρ(T) of La₃Pd₄Si₄ at various externally applied
magnetic fields.

non-negligible electron-electron scattering superimposed to
electron-phonon scattering.

To proof whether superconductivity in La₃Pd₄Si₄ is of bulk nature and
does not refer to an impurity phase, heat capacity measurements C_(p)(T)
have been carried out for temperatures down to 350 mK and for magnetic
fields up to 0.4 T. Results are displayed in Fig. 3. Bulk
superconductivity is obvious from the distinct anomaly of C_(p)/T around
2 K. An accurate determination of the superconducting transition
temperature can be made from an idealized jump of the heat capacity
anomaly (solid line, Fig. 3) by a balance of entropy, yielding
T_(c) = 1.98 K, in good agreement with the resistivity data. The ideal
peak height of the SC anomaly would then be 27 mJ/mol K².

An estimation of the normal state Sommerfeld value γ_(n) within the
temperature range between 2 and 5 K, reveals 26 mJ/mol K², and,
additionally, θ_(D) = 280 K. A similar γ value is obtained if field
measurements (e.g., μ₀H = 0.4 T) are considered, resulting in γ_(n) = 28
mJ/mol K². The latter, however, is derived within a much smaller range
of extrapolation.

From the jump of the specific heat ΔC_(p)/T(T = T_(c)) ≈ 27 mJ/mol K²,
we calculate the parameter ΔC_(p)/(γ_(n)T_(c)) ≈ 1.03, which is below
the figure expected from BCS theory, ΔC_(p)/(γ T_(c)) ≈ 1.43.

Deviations from a standard BCS behavior are also evident from the
temperature dependent specific heat. Compared in Fig. 4(a) are the
experimental heat capacity data of La₃Pd₄Si₄ plotted in a normalized
representation C_(p)/(γ_(n)T_(c)), together with the heat capacity of a
fully gapped s-wave superconductor as tabulated by Muhlschlegel[20]
[solid line, Fig. 4(a)] and a simple power law C_(p) ∝ T³
[dashed-double-dotted line, Fig. 4(a)]. The latter would indicate point
nodes in the superconducting gap. Obviously both models do not properly
account for the experimental data, specifically in the low temperature
range.

A further model calculation is based on a two gap scenario employing the
so-called α model developed by Padamsee _et al.[21]_ with only one
adjustable parameter α = Δ(0)/(k_(B)T_(c)). Note, the value α = 1.764
corresponds to the weak coupling BCS limit. The heat capacity in the
superconducting state is then a sum of individual contributions of both
gaps Δ_(i)(0), together with the ratio γ₁/γ₂, with the partial specific
heat contributions γ₁ + γ₂ = γ_(n). Such calculations have been
successfully applied to MgB₂,[22] to borocarbide superconductors,[23] or
recently to the ternary iron-silicide Lu₂Fe₅Si₅.[24] Employing this
model to La₃Pd₄Si₄ with α₁ = 1.95, α₂ = 1.1, and γ₁/γ₂ = 0.7/0.3 [dashed
line, Fig. 4(a)] reveals convincing agreement with the experimental data
in an extended temperature range. Such a two gap model would also be in
line with the pronounced positive curvature found for the upper critical
field of La₃Pd₄Si₄ (see below). The temperature dependent difference
between the experimental data and the three theoretical models are shown
in Fig. 4(b), clearly demonstrating the superior agreement of the two
gap scenario over a fully gapped s-wave model or the simple power law.

As shown in Fig. 3, both the transition temperature and the jump of the
specific heat at T_(c) become suppressed with increasing externally
applied magnetic fields. This field dependent lowering of T_(c) is
outlined in Fig. 4(b), where both resistivity and heat capacity data are
summarized. As it is obvious from this figure, T_(c)(μ₀H) shows a
superlinear dependence, reaching an upper critical field at zero
temperature μ₀H_(c2)(0) of about 0.6 T. A typical BCS superconductor,
however, would exhibit a sublinear temperature dependence μ₀H_(c2)(T).
In absence of low temperature measurements, Fujii[7, 6] estimated an
upper

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependent heat capacity C_(p) of
La₃Pd₄Si₄ plotted as C_(p)/T vs T for various externally applied
magnetic fields. The dashed line represents an ideal superconducting
transition with T_(c) = 1.98 K.

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Low temperature specific heat C_(p) of
La₃Pd₄Si₄ plotted in a normalized representation C_(p)/(γ_(n)T_(c)) vs
T/T_(c). γ_(n) is the Sommerfeld constant in the normal state region of
La₃Pd₄Si₄. The solid line is the heat capacity of a fully gapped BCS
superconductor, whereas the dashed line represents a model with two
different superconducting gaps. For details see the text. The
dashed–double-dotted line is a power law C_(p) ∝ T³. (b) Temperature
dependent difference δ of experimental and theoretical heat capacity
data C_(p)/(γ_(n)T_(c)) below T_(c). The colors refer to (a). (c) Upper
critical magnetic field μ₀H_(c2) of La₃Pd₄Si₄ as derived from
resistivity (50

critical field μ₀H_(c2) ≈ 0.33 T from a simple extrapolation of
susceptibility results.

The unusual temperature dependence of the upper critical field of
La₃Pd₄Si₄ can have different microscopic origins: (i) The existence of
more than one Fermi-surface sheet with energy gaps of different
magnitudes as reported, e.g., for binary MgB₂, or (ii) strong
anisotropies of the superconducting order parameter residing on a single
Fermi-surface sheet.

Positive curvatures of μ₀H_(c2)(T) have been observed, e.g., for the
nonmagnetic rare-earth nickel borocarbides RNi₂B₂C (R = Y, Lu) and were
explained theoretically employing effective two-band models.[25, 26]
Phenomenologically, μ₀H_(c2)(T) of borocarbides and MgB₂ were accounted
for in a wide temperature range using the simple expression[27]

μ₀H_(c2) = μ₀H_(c2)^(*)(1 − T/T_(c))^(1 + β),
(2)

where μ₀H_(c2)^(*) and β are fitting parameters. Similar to the
borocarbide case and MgB₂, μ₀H_(c2)(T) of La₃Pd₄Si₄, as displayed in
Fig. 4(c), can be described on the basis of Eq. (2). A least-squares fit
is shown in Fig. 4(c) as a dashed line revealing H_(c2)^(*) = 0.6 and
β = 0.77. Exponents of a similar order were derived for borocarbides and
MgB₂, too.

Werthamer _et al.[28]_ derived an expression (abbreviated as _WHH
model_) for the upper critical field μ₀H_(c2) in terms of orbital pair
breaking, including the effect of Pauli spin paramagnetism and
spin-orbit scattering. The WHH model is ruled by two parameters, namely
α_(M), the Pauli paramagnetic limitation (= Maki parameter[29]), and
λ_(∞), describing spin-orbit scattering. While the value of α_(M) allows
a rough discrimination between orbital pair breaking and Pauli limiting,
λ_(∞) becomes non-negligible for heavier atoms.

The Maki parameter α_(M) can be estimated[28] from the Sommerfeld value
γ and the residual resistivity ρ₀ as α_(M) = 0.23. The reasonably low
value of α indicates that orbital pair breaking in La₃Pd₄Si₄ is the
essential mechanism, limiting the upper critical field. The overall
temperature dependence of μ₀H_(c2) as derived from the WHH model is
displayed as a solid line in Fig. 4(b), revealing μ₀H_(c2)(0) = 0.21 T,
which is more than two times smaller than the experimentally observed
data.

The thermodynamic critical field is calculated from the free energy
difference between the superconducting and normal state, given by the
expression
$\Delta F(T)=F_{n}-F_{t}=\mu_{0}H_{c}^{2}(T)/2=\int_{T_{c}}^{T}\int_{T_{c}}^{T} \frac{(C-C_{n})}{T}dT^{\prime\prime}dT^{\prime}$.
The quantity C_(n)(T) is obtained from the zero field specific heat
measurement, whereas C_(n)(T) is obtained from the data corresponding to
the 0.4 T run. The values derived are displayed in Fig. 4(b) as a
dashed-dotted line; an extrapolation to T → 0 yields μ₀H_(c)(0) ≈ 0.04
T. This allows us to evaluate a value for the dimensionless Ginzburg
Landau parameter $\kappa_{\rm GL}=H_{c2}(0)/(\sqrt{2}H_{c})\simeq 9.8$,
where the experimentally determined H_(c2)(0) = 0.55 T has been used.
The coherence length ξ₀ for T → 0 can be obtained from
μ₀H_(c2) = Φ₀/(2π ξ₀²), yielding ξ₀ ≃ 2.44 × 10⁻⁸ m. Combining the
Ginzburg Landau parameter with the coherence length, the London
penetration depth can be obtained as λ_(L)(T → 0) ≃ 2.39 × 10⁻⁷ m.

An estimation of the electron-phonon interaction strength
$\lambda_{v,\rm ph}$ is possible in terms of the McMillan formula.[30]
Applying this model, and taking the repulsive screened Coulomb part
μ^(*) ≈ 0.13, yields $\lambda_{v,\rm ph}\approx 0.52$; this
characterizes La₃Pd₄Si₄ as a SC in the weak coupling limit.

Similarly, an electron-phonon enhancement factor of about the same
magnitude can be found if recent electronic structure calculations are
considered,[31] where the calculated density of states at the Fermi
energy corresponds to a bare band value γ_(b) = 19.8 mJ/mol K². A
comparison with the experimentally derived Sommerfeld value γ = 29
mJ/mol K² yields $\lambda_{v,\rm ph}\approx 0.46$, supporting the weak
coupling regime.

Based on the value of $l_{\rm tr}/\xi\approx 0.75$ we classify La₃Pd₄Si₄
as a weakly coupled superconductor in the dirty limit; the value of
$\kappa_{\rm GL}\approx 10$ refers to a type II superconductor.

### Ce₃Pd₄Si₄

Intermetallic compounds based on Ce are known a long time for a variety
of interesting ground states, primarily triggered by the Kondo effect as
a result of distinct interactions between conduction electrons and the
magnetic moment of the Ce ion. In the following, results derived from
resistivity, heat capacity, and magnetization measurements will be used
to obtain information on the ground state properties of Ce₃Pd₄Si₄.

Shown in Fig. 5 are temperature dependent resistivity measurements of
Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ and of La₃Pd₄Si₄; the latter compound serves as a nonmagnetic
reference, representing the contribution to the electrical resistivity
owing to the electron-phonon interaction. While ρ(T) of La₃Pd₄Si₄
exhibits superconductivity below 2 K and a simple metallic behavior in
the normal state region (see the previous section), ρ(T) of Ce₃Pd₄Si₄
shows a much more complex temperature dependence as typical for Kondo
lattice systems. The most dominant feature is a maximum in ρ(T) around
8.5 K with ρ(T) dropping above and below this temperature. Well above
100 K, a local minimum develops in ρ(T). A comparison of the
experimental data of Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ and La₃Pd₄Si₄ allows

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependent resistivity ρ of
La₃Pd₄Si₄ and Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ plotted on a logarithmic temperature scale. The
magnetic contribution $\rho_{\rm mag}(T)$ of Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ is also shown in
this plot, where the dashed line should emphasize Kondo interaction;
$\rho_{\rm mag}\approx\rho(\rm Ce_{3}Pd_{4}Si_{4})-\rho(\rm La_{3}Pd_{4}Si_{4})$.
The solid line is a least-squares fit as explained in Fig. 2.

us to derive the magnetic part $\rho_{\rm mag}$ if one assumes that the
phonon contribution of both compounds is equal. $\rho_{\rm mag}(T)$ of
Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ is included in Fig. 5, too. The logarithmic temperature
dependence of $\rho_{\rm mag}$ at elevated temperatures evidences Kondo
interaction in the presence of crystalline electric field splitting. The
drop of ρ(T) at low temperatures results from the development of a
coherent state owing to the Kondo lattice properties of Ce₃Pd₄Si₄. In
general, such a coherent state would be concomitant with Fermi-liquid
features, and a T² behavior of $\rho_{\rm mag}(T)$ should become
obvious. The present experimental data, however, reveal a distinctly
different power law.

A closer inspection of the low temperature resistivity data is shown in
Fig. 6, where measurements at various magnetic fields are added. The low
temperature maximum in ρ(T) is weakly field dependent and shifts from
about 8.5 K at zero magnetic field to about 10.5 K at an externally
applied field of 8 T. Such a field dependence of the electrical
resistivity is typical for cerium and ytterbium based Kondo lattices. At
the lowest temperatures of our study, Fermi-liquid features are absent
in ρ(T). Rather, the zero field measurement can be accounted for by a
simple power law ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n), where the exponent n = 1 reveals
best agreement; in the case of the 12 T run, n = 1.15. These exponents
are indicative of a non-Fermi-liquid behavior, arising, most likely,
from the proximity of a magnetic instability of the Ce ions.

A magnetic state of the Ce ions in Ce₃Pd₄Si₄, can be concluded from
magnetic susceptibility measurements χ(T) as shown in Fig. 7. Applying a
modified Curie-Weiss law to the experimental data, i.e.,

$$\chi=\chi_{0}+\frac{C}{T-\theta_{p}},$$
(3)

yields information concerning a temperature independent Pauli
contribution χ₀, the effective magnetic moment $\mu_{\rm eff}$ (deduced
from the Curie constant C), and the paramagnetic Curie temperature
θ_(p). Results of a least-squares fit (T > 50 K) according to Eq. (3)
are shown as a solid line in Fig. 7, revealing an effective magnetic
moment $\mu_{\rm eff}=2.51$μ_(B) close to that of the Ce-4f¹ electronic
configuration [$\mu_{\rm eff}({\rm Ce^{3+}})=2.54$$\mu_{\rm B}$] and a
paramagnetic Curie temperature θ_(p) = −29 K. The latter refers to
antiferromagnetic interactions among the Ce ions. χ(T) at low
temperatures does not show any characteristic anomaly being typical for
long range magnetic order. This is in line with isothermal magnetization
data taken at T = 2 K (inset, Fig. 7). A smooth, slightly curvilinear
M(H) dependence is observed with relatively small magnetization values
at 6 T. A description of these data can be done calculating the field
dependent magnetization of an effective spin 1/2 system at T = 2 K,
employing a Lande factor $g_{\rm eff}=0.775$. Fairly good agreement is
obtained in this way, except for the low field range, where the
disagreement between the model and the experimental data appears to be
in line with the Curie-like bending of the magnetic susceptibility at
low temperatures. CEF effects are the primary cause for the appearance
of only small magnetization values, well below g_(j)j = 2.14μ_(B),
associated with the total angular momentum of the free Ce³⁺ ion. A
comparison with magnetization data of Ce₃Pd₄Ge₄ at T = 2 K [35] shows
for the latter a clear indication for a metamagnetic phase transition
around 4 T, thus referring to an antiferromagnetic ground state.

To further prove the ground state of Ce₃Pd₄Si₄, heat capacity
measurements C_(p) have been performed down to 400 mK. Results are
displayed in Fig. 8 as C_(p)/T vs T, together with those of La₃Pd₄Si₄.
The most prominent feature is an almost logarithmic contribution in the
range of a few Kelvin, followed by a smooth saturation of C_(p)/T
towards zero with very large values of about 2.7 J/mol K², corresponding
to γ = 0.9 J/mol K² per cerium ion. Considering renormalization group
calculations by Oliveira and Wilkins,[32] the Kondo temperature T_(K)
follows from T_(K) = 0.68 ⋅ R/γ = 6.2 K if a doublet is considered as
ground state.

Figure 6: (Color online) Low temperature electrical resistivity ρ
measured at various externally applied magnetic fields. The inset shows
resistivity details together with power law fits for the zero and 12 T
run.

Figure 7: (Color online) Temperature dependent magnetic susceptibility χ
of Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ plotted as 1/χ vs T. The solid line is a fit employing a
modified Curie-Weiss law. The inset displays the isothermal
magnetization (T = 2 K) of Ce₃Pd₄Si₄; the solid line is the
magnetization of an effective spin 1/2 system with a Lande factor
$g_{\rm eff}=0.775$.

Assuming that the phonon contribution to the heat capacity of Ce₃Pd₄Si₄
can be represented by the specific heat of La₃Pd₄Si₄, the magnetic
entropy $S_{\rm mag}$ can be derived by integrating $C_{\rm mag}/\,T$.
Results of this evaluation are plotted in Fig. 8 as a dashed line,
referring to the right axis. An entropy of 3 ⋅ Rln 2 is reached around
18 K. The slow rate of the recovery of magnetic entropy in Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ is
a consequence of the Kondo effect present in this compound.
$S_{\rm mag}(T)$ also allows us to estimate the Kondo temperature
independently from
$T_{K}=T(S_{\rm mag}\approx 0.45\cdot R\ln 2)\approx 4.4$ K [33], in
very good agreement with the estimation obtained from the Sommerfeld
value. Kondo-type interaction is also supposed to be responsible for the
suppression of long range magnetic order, absent in Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ at least
down to 400 mK.

The further increase of $S_{\rm mag}$ at higher temperatures indicates
that the excited crystalline electric field levels are not well
separated from the ground state; hence some hybridization between CEF
levels might appear. This is seen from some deformation of the maximum
of the magnetic contribution to the electrical resistivity, too.

In order to test whether or not Ce₃Pd₄Si₄ is at or near the quantum
critical point, the self-consistent renormalization (SCR) model of
Moriya and Takimoto [14] can be taken into account:

$$C_{m} = 9N_{0}\int_{0}^{x_{0}}dx\,x^{2}\left\{\left[u^{2}-2u\frac{dy}{ dt}+\left(\frac{dy}{dt}\right)^{2}\right]\right.$$
(4)
$$\times\left[-\frac{1}{u}-\frac{1}{2u^{2}}+\psi^{\prime}(u)\right]$$
$$\left.-t\frac{d^{2}y}{dt^{2}}\left[\ln u-\frac{1}{2u}-\psi(u) \right]\right\},$$

where  

## References

* [1] E. Wawrzynska, S. Baran, J. Leciejewicz, W. Sikora, N. Stusser,
and A. Szytula, J. Phys.: Condens. Mat. **15**, 803 (2003). * [2] E.
Wawrzynska, J. Hernandez-Velasco, B. Penc, W. Sikora, A. Szytula, and A.
Zygmunt, J. Phys.: Condens. Mat. **15**, 5279 (2003). * [3] G. Bocelli,
O. Sologub, and P. Salamakha, J. Alloys Compounds **360**, L3 (2003). *
[4] E. Wawrzynska, J. Hernandez-Velasco, B. Penc, and A. Szytula, J.
Phys.: Condens. Mat. **16**, 45 (2004). * [5] E. Wawrzynska, J.
Hernandez-Velasco, B. Penc, M. Rams, and A. Szytula, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **288**, 111 (2005). * [6] H. Fujii, T. Mochiku, H. Takeya, and
A. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 214520 (2005). * [7] H. Fujii, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **18**, 8037 (2006). * [8] T. Mochiku, H. Fujii, H.
Takeya, T. Wuernisha, K. Mori, T. Ishigaki, T. Kamiyama, and K. Hirata,
Physica C **463-465**, 182 (2007). * [9] S. Kasahara, H. Fujii, H.
Takeya, T. Mochiku, A. D. Thakur, and K. Hirata, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **20**, 385204 (2008). * [10] S. Kasahara, H. Fujii, T. Mochiku,
H. Takeya, and K. Hirata, Physica B **403**, 1119 (2008). * [11] P.
Rogl, B. Chevalier, and J. Etourneau, J. Solid State Chem. **88**, 429
(1990). * [12] A. Lipatov, A. Gribanov, A. Grytsiv, P. Rogl, E.
Murashova, Y. Seropegin, G. Giester, and K. Kalmykov, J. Solid State
Chem. **182**, 2497 (2009). * [13] E. Parthe, L. Gelato, B. Chabot, M.
Penzo, K. Cenzual, and R. Gladyshevskii, _TYPIX–Standardized Data and
Crystal Chemical Characterization of Inorganic Structure Types_
(Springer, Berlin, 1994). * [14] T. Moriya and T. Takimoto, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **64**, 960 (1995). * [15] T. Roisnel and J.
Rodriguez-Carvajal, Mater. Sci. Forum **118**, 378 (2001). * [16] J.
Rodriguez-Carvajal, Physica B **192**, 55 (1993). * [17] STOE-WINXPOW
(Version 1.06), Stoe & Cie GmbH, Darmstadt, Germany, 1999 * [18] A. H.
Wilson, Proc. R. Soc. London Ser. A **167**, 580 (1938). * [19] J. C. H.
Chiu, Phys. Rev. B **13**, 1507 (1976). * [20] B. Muhlschlegel, Z.
Phys., **155**, 313 (1959). * [21] H. Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor, and C.
A. Shiffman, J. Low Temp. Phys. **12**, 387 (1973). * [22] F. Bouquet,
R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. G. Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). * [23] C. L. Huang, J.-Y. Lin, C. P.
Sun, T. K. Lee, J. D. Kim, E. M. Choi, S. I. Lee, and H. D. Yang, Phys.
Rev. B **73**, 012502 (2006). * [24] Y. Nakajima, T. Nakagawa, T.
Tamegai, and H. Harima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 157001 (2008). * [25]
S. V. Shulga, S. L. Drechsler, G. Fuchs, K. H. Muller, K. Winzer, M.
Heinecke, and K. Krug, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 1730 (1998). * [26] S.
Manalo, H. Michor, M. El-Hagary, G. Hilscher, and E. Schachinger, Phys.
Rev. B **63**, 104508 (2001). * [27] K.-H. Muller, G. Fuchs, A.
Handstein, K. Nenkov, V. N. Narozhnyi, D. Eckert, and M. Wolf, Physica C
**372-376**, 1251 (2002); J. Freudenberger, S.-L. Drechsler, G. Fuchs,
A. Kreyssig, K. Nenkov, S. V. Shulga, K.-H. Muller, and L. Schultz,
_ibid._**306**, 1 (1998). * [28] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [29] K. Maki, Phys. Rev.
**148**, 362 (1966). * [30] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331
(1968). * [31] M. J. Wijnarski and M. Samsel-Czekala, J. Alloys
Compounds **546**, 124 (2013). * [32] L. N. Oliveira and J. W. Wilkins,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **47**, 1553 (1981). * [33] H.-U. Desgranges and K. D.
Schotte, Phys. Lett. A **90**, 240 (1982). * [34] E. D. Bauer, V. A.
Sidorov, S. Bobev, D. J. Mixson, J. D. Thompson, J. L. Sarrao, and M. F.
Hundley, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 014419 (2005). * [35] H. J. Im, Y. S.
Kwon, and M. H. Jung, Solid State Commun. **124**, 181 (2002).
