# Superconductivity in SrPd₂Ge₂

H. Fujii^(1, #) and A. Sato²

¹Superconducting Materials Center, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0047, Japan

²Materials Analysis Station, National Institute for Materials Science,
1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

Received 3 April 2009; revised manuscript received 24 May 2009;
published 19 June 2009

###### Abstract

Ternary germanide SrPd₂Ge₂ has been prepared by arc melting. The crystal
structure of this germanide was determined by single-crystal x-ray
diffraction. This is isostructural with the recently discovered
superconductors (Ba,Sr)_(1 − x)(K,Cs)_(x)/Fe₂As_(x) with
ThCr_(x)Si₂-type structure with space group _I4_/_mmm_. The lattice
parameters of SrPd₂Ge₂ are a = 0.440 88(2) and c = 1.012 70(8) nm. dc
magnetization and electrical resistivity measurements indicated that the
SrPd₂Ge₂ is a type II superconductor with a critical temperature
(_T_(c)_) of 3.04 K.

pacs: 74.70.Dd, 61.05.cp, 61.66.Fn, 74.25.Op + Footnote †: preprint:
PHYSICAL REVIEW B **79**, 224522 (2009)

## I Introduction

Among ternary intermetallic compounds, ThCr₂Si₂-type intermetallics have
been extensively studied, especially for the interest of the
superconducting and magnetic properties. The structure of ThCr₂Si₂ is
the ordered ternary derivative of the binary BaAl₄-type structure.[1]
Although numerous ThCr₂Si₂-type intermetallics have been reported so
far, superconductivity is observed only for some compounds. The critical
temperature (_T_(c)_) of those compounds is generally very low, as
reported for LaPd₂Ge₂ and LaIr₂Ge₂ with _T_(c)_’s of 1.12 (Ref. 2) and
1.5 K,[3] respectively.

Many works were carried out for the discovery of new intermetallic
superconductors with higher _T_(c)_’s. Some intermetallic
superconductors with relatively high _T_(c)_’s, such as MgB₂ with
AlB₂-type structure,[4] were reported so far. Concerning the
ThCr₂Si₂-type structure, quaternary intermetallics _RET₂_B₂C with
ThCr₂Si₂-derivative structure were discovered.[5, 6, 7, 8] Among these
borocarbides, YPd₂B₂C shows the highest _T_(c)_ of 23 K. Furthermore,
recently new ThCr₂Si₂-type superconductors
(Ba,Sr)_(1 − x)(K,Cs)_(x)Fe₂As₂ were discovered with _T_(c)_’s up to 38
K.[9, 10] Thus, this structure is one of the keys to search new
intermetallic superconductors with higher _T_(c)_’s. In this paper we
report one of the ThCr₂Si₂-type superconductors, SrPd₂Ge₂, with a
_T_(c)_ of 3.04 K.

## II Experimental

Starting materials were Sr (sheet, 99

Phase identification was carried out for crushed samples by an x-ray
diffraction (XRD) method with an x-ray diffractometer JEOL JDX-3500 with
monochromatized Cu _Kα_ radiation. Single crystals for structural
analyses picked up from the crushed samples were glued on the top of a
glass fiber and mounted on the goniometer head. X-ray single-crystal
diffraction data were collected at room temperature 293(2) K using a
Bruker SMART APEX charge-coupled device (CCD) area-detector
diffractometer with graphite monochromatized Mo _Kα_ radiation (λ =
0.071 073 nm). The absorption correction and structural refinement were
carried out using the programs SADABS and SHELXJ.97.[11, 12]
Microstructural observation was carried out using a scanning electron
microscope (SEM) JEOL JSM-6301F with an energy dispersive x-ray (EDX)
spectrometer.

dc magnetization measurements were performed for polycrystalline bulk
samples with a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometer Quantum Design MPMS XL. Field-dependent and
temperature-dependent magnetization [M(H) and M(T)] curves were recorded
at temperatures above 1.8 K in fields up to 2 kOe. The volume fraction
of superconducting phase was estimated from the magnitude of zero-field
cooling (ZFC) magnetization in a field of 10 Oe in the M(T)
measurements. The _T_(c)_ was defined as the onset temperature where a
diamagnetic signal was observed. Electrical resistivity (ρ) measurements
were carried out for polycrystalline samples in the temperature range
from 1.8 to 300 K in magnetic fields up to 1.2 kOe by a standard dc
four-probe method. Each measurement was carried out for a few samples to
check reproducibility.

## III Results and Discussion

### Structural analyses

Figure 1 shows the XRD pattern of crushed powder sample of SrPd₂Ge₂.
Most of the diffraction peaks in the XRD pattern are indexed on the
basis of a tetragonal unit cell with lattice parameters of a = 0.441 and
c = 1.013 nm. The reflection condition is h + k + l = 2n. This indicates
that the lattice is body centered with one of suggested space groups
I4_m_2, I4_m_m_, I4_m_m_, I4_22, and I4_/_mmm_. SEM-EDX analyses were
performed on the polished cross section of the button of SrPd₂Ge₂. The
composition of the main phase in these samples is Sr⋅Pd⋅Ge = 1⋅2⋅2,
indicating that the phase with the tetragonal cell is indeed SrPd₂Ge₂.

Shiny crystals picked up from the crushed samples were used for
structural refinement. Preliminary investigations indicated that these
crystals have nearly the same lattice parameters as the crushed samples
mentioned above.

The lattice parameters of SrPd₂Ge₂ are almost equal to other
ThCr₂Si₂-type intermetallics with space group I4/_mmm_. For example, the
parameters of SrRh₂Ge₂ with this structure are a = 0.4183 and c = 1.0718
nm.[13] Therefore, the structural refinements were first carried out on
the basis of the model of the ThCr₂Si₂-type structure. Table 1 lists the
atomic coordinates and equivalent thermal parameters. The crystal data
and the results of structural refinements are listed in Table 2. The
small R factors indicate that the structure of SrPd₂Ge₂ is ThCr₂Si₂
type. Compared with the lattice parameters of ThCr₂Si₂-type SrNi₂Ge₂
with the lattice parameters of a = 0.4188 and c = 1.0254 nm,[14]
replacement of Ni with a larger atom Pd causes quite a large elongation
of the a axis parameters, whereas the c axis parameters are almost the
same. The same trend is observed for LaM₂Ge₂ (_M_ = Ni and Pd). The
lattice parameters of LaNi₂Ge₂ are a = 0.4187 and c = 0.9918 nm,[14]
whereas LaPd₂Ge₂ shows a = 0.43669 and c = 1.0027 nm.[15]

### Superconducting properties

Figure 2 shows temperature-dependent dc magnetization measured in both
ZFC and field cooling (FC) modes for SrPd₂Ge₂. The diamagnetic signals
are observed at 3.04 K for both modes with a 10

Figure 3 shows the _M_(_H_) curves measured at various temperatures for
SrPd₂Ge₂. The details of the same curves in the background region are
shown in the inset. These curves are characteristic for type II
superconductors. Figure 4 shows the _M_(_T_) curves measured for
SrPd₂Ge₂ at various magnetic fields. The details of the same curves in
the vicinity of _T_c are also shown in the inset.

Figure 5 shows the electrical resistivity ρ as a function of temperature
in magnetic fields. The resistivity decreases with decreasing
temperature, showing metalliclike conductivity. From 300 to 30 K, the
temperature-dependent resistivity curve shows a small negative
curvature. Such a curvature is also observed for U₃Ni₄Si₄-type
La₃M_(x)^(′)X₄ (_M_^(′) = Ni and Pd, X = Si and Ge) superconductors
consisting of the combination of structural units of AlB₂-type LaM^(′)X
and ThCr₂Si₂-type LaM_(x)^(′)X₂ layers.[16, 17] The onset temperature of
the transition in 0 Oe is 3.09 K and zero resistance is observed at 3.03
K. The

c c c c c Atom & Wyckoff position & x & y & z & _U_eq×10⁴ (nm²)
Sr & 2a & 0 & 0 & 0 & 1.46(1)
Pd & 4d & 0 & 1/2 & 1/4 & 1.88(1)
Ge & 4e & 0 & 0 & 0.37034(5) & 1.68(1)

Table 2: Crystal data and results of the structural refinements for
SrPd₂Ge₂.

Figure 1: XRD pattern of crushed polycrystalline sample of SrPd₂Ge₂.
Most of the XRD peaks are indexed on the basis of a tetragonal unit cell
with the lattice parameters of a = 0.411 and c = 1.013 nm.

detail of the region in the vicinity of T_(c) is shown in the inset. The
room-temperature resistivity, ρ(300 K), is approximately 30 μΩ cm and
the residual resistivity, ρ(res), just above T_(c) is 2.5 μΩ cm.
Therefore, the residual resistivity ratio is ρ(300 K)/ρ(res) = 12,
indicating that the sample has a good quality. With increasing applied
magnetic fields, the T_(c) decreases and zero resistance is no longer
observed in fields above 600 Oe.

The apparent lower critical field (H_(c1)^(*)) was determined by
low-field magnetization measurements with the SQUID magnetometer.
H_(c1)^(*) at various temperatures was taken as the point of deviation
of M(H) from the linear M-H behavior observed at low fields. The true
lower critical field (H_(c1)) was obtained from the H_(c1)^(*) by
applying the correction for the demagnetization factor. The H_(c1) as a
function of temperature is shown in Fig. 6. Fitting the formula
H_(c1)=H_(c1)(0)[1 −(T/T_(c))²], H_(c1)(0) = 180 Oe and $T_{c}

  The upper critical field (\(H_{c2}$) was estimated from both M(H) and
M(T) curves. For the M(H) curves, the H_(c2) was determined from the
point where the M(H) curves reach the background. For the M(T) curves,
the H_(c2) was estimated, taking account of the onset point of
superconducting transition of the M(T) curves. The H_(c2) estimated from
these curves as a function of temperature is shown in Fig. 7. The
gradient −dH_(c2)/dT is estimated to be 0.84 and 0.83 kOe/K for
H_(c2)^(H_(c2)M(T)) and H_(c2)^(M_(c2)T(T)) curves, respectively. These
values are much lower than those of the same ThCr₂Si₂-type (Ba, K)Fe₂As₂
and ThCr₂Si₂-derivative borocarbides. The −dH_(c2)/dT of the (Ba,
K)Fe₂As₂ single crystal is 29 and 54 kOe/K for H∥c and H⊥c,
respectively.[21] The borocarbides show the −dH_(c2)/dT value of 8
kOe/K.[18] On the other hand, the same ThCr₂Si₂-type BaNi₂P₂ single
crystal with a T_(c) of 2.51 K shows the comparable −dH_(c2)/dT values
of about 0.4 and 1 kOe/K for H∥⊥c, respectively.[20]

Linear extrapolation of the H_(c2)(T) curves obtained from the M(H) and
M(T) curves gives H_(c2)^(H_(c2)M(0))=2.6 kOe and
H_(c2)^(M_(c2)T(0))=2.4 kOe, respectively. On the other hand, assuming
the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) formula
$H_{c2}^{\rm WHH(0)}$=−0.697_(c)(dH_(c2)/dT)${}_{\rm rc2}$[22]$H_{c2}^{\rm WHH(0)}$
values of 1.8 and 1.7 kOe are obtained from H_(c2)^(M_(c2)(0)) and
H_(c2)^(M_(c2)T(0)) curves, respectively. $H_{c2}^{\rm oz}T(T)$ which is
defined as the field where the 1

With the formula H_(c2)(0)=Φ₀/2πξ(0)² (Φ₀ is the flux quantum), the
Ginzburg-Landau (GL) coherence length ξ(0) is estimated to be 43 nm.
From H_(c2)(0) and ξ(0) the penetration depth, λ(0), is calculated to be
71 nm with the formula H_(c1)(0)=[Φ₀/4πλ(0)²]ln[λ(0)/ξ(0)]. The GL
parameter, κ(0)[=λ(0)/ξ(0)], is 1.6. This value of the GL parameter is
quite small. It is noted that LaPd₂Ge₂, obtained by the replacement of
Sr with La in SrPd₂Ge₂, is a type I superconductor with a T_(c) of 1.12
K.[2] On the other hand, thermodynamic critical field [H_(c)(0)] is
estimated to be 770 Oe, with the formula of H_(c)(0)=H_(c2)(0)/ γ κ(0).
Table 3 lists these measured and calculated superconducting properties
for SrPd₂Ge₂.

## IV Conclusions

We have prepared ternary germanide SrPd₂Ge₂ by arc melting. This is
isostructural with the recently discovered ThCr₂Si₂-type superconductors
(Ba,Sr)_(1 − x)(K,Cs)_(x)Fe₂As₂ with space group I4/mmm. The lattice
parameters of SrPd₂Ge₂ are a=0.440 88(2) and c=1.012 70(8) nm. dc
magnetization and electrical resistivity measurements indicated that the
SrPd₂Ge₂ is a type II superconductor with a T_(c) of 3.04 K.

## Acknowledgments

The authors cordially thank H. Takeya and K. Hirata for their help in
the electrical resistivity measurements.

Figure 6: Lower critical field H_(c1) as a function of temperature for
polycrystalline sample of SrPd₂Ge₂. The H_(c1) data are fitted with the
formula H_(c1)=H_(c1)(0)[1−(TT_(c))²].

  --------------------- ------
        T_(c) (K)        3.04
      H_(c)(0) (Oe)      770
     H_(c1)(0) (Oe)      180
     H_(c2)(0) (kOe)     1.8
   −dH_(c2)/dT (kOe/K)   0.84
        λ(0) (nm)         71
        ξ(0) (nm)         43
          κ(0)           1.6
  --------------------- ------

Table 3: Measured and derived superconducting parameters for SrPd₂Ge₂.

Figure 7: Upper critical field H_(c2) obtained from M(T) and M(H) curves
as a function of temperature for polycrystalline sample of SrPd₂Ge₂. The
H_(c2)^(M_(c2)T(0)) and H_(c2)^(M_(c2)H(0)) denoted by a solid circle
and a solid triangle are estimated by linear extrapolation of the
H_(c2)(T) curves obtained from the M(T) and M(H) curves, respectively.
The $H_{c2}(0)^{\rm WHH}$ estimated by the WHH formula for these curves
is also denoted by the same symbols as indicated by arrows.

* [8] Corresponding author. * [1] Z. Ban and M. Sikirica, Acta
Crystallogr. **18**, 594 (1965). * [2] G. W. Hull, J. H. Wernick, T. H.
Geballe, J. V. Waszczak, and J. E. Bernardini, Phys. Rev. B **24**, 6715
(1981). * [3] M. Francois, G. Venturini, J. F. Mareche, B. Malaman, and
B. Roques, J. Less-Common Met. **113**, 231 (1985). * [4] J. Nagamatsu,
N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu, Nature (London)
**410**, 63 (2001). * [5] R. J. Cava, H. Takagi, B. Batlogg, H. W.
Zandbergen, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., R. B. van Dover, R. J.
Felder, T. Siegrist, K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, H. Eisaki, S. A. Carter,
and S. Uchida, Nature (London) **367**, 146 (1994). * [6] R. J. Cava, H.
Takagi, H. W. Zandbergen, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., T. Siegrist,
B. Batlogg, R. B. van Dover, R. J. Felder, K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, H.
Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Nature (London) **367**, 252 (1994). * [7] R. J.
Cava, B. Batlogg, T. Siegrist, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., S.
Carter, R. J. Felder, H. Takagi, and R. B. van Dover, Phys. Rev. B
**49**, 12384 (1994). * [8] H. Fujii, S. Ikeda, T. Kimura, S. Arisawa,
K. Hirata, H. Kumakura, K. Kadowaki, and K. Togano, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.,
Part 1 **33**, L590 (1994). * [9] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [10] K. Sasmal, B. Lv, B.
Lorenz, A. M. Guloy, F. Chen, Y.-Y. Xue, and C.-W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 107007 (2008). * [11] Bruker, smart, sand, and sadabs, Bruker
AXS, Inc., Madison, Wisconsin, USA, 2001. * [12] G. M. Sheldrick, Acta
Crystallogr., Sect. A: Found. Crystallogr. **64**, 112 (2008). * [13] J.
Gonzalez, R. Kessens, and H. U. Schuster, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. **619**,
13 (1993). * [14] W. Rieger and E. Parthe, Monatsch. Chem. **100**, 444
(1969). * [15] G. Venturini and B. Malaman, J. Alloys Compd. **235**,
201 (1996). * [16] H. Fujii, T. Mochiku, H. Takeya, and A. Sato, Phys.
Rev. B **72**, 214520 (2005). * [17] H. Fujii, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**18**, 8037 (2006). * [18] H. Takagi, R. J. Cava, H. Eisaki, J. O. Lee,
K. Mizuhashi, B. Batlogg, S. Uchida, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck,
Jr., Physica C **228**, 389 (1994). * [19] T. Mine, H. Yanagi, T.
Kamiya, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Solid State Commun.
**147**, 111 (2008). * [20] Y. Tomioka, T. Ito, H. Kito, A. Iyo, H.
Eisaki, S. Ishida, M. Nakajima, and S. Uchida, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**
Suppl. C, 136 (2008). * [21] H. Q. Yuan, J. Singleton, F. F. Balakirev,
S. A. Baily, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Nature (London)
**457**, 565 (2009). * [22] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohemberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966).
