Low anisotropy of the upper critical field in a strongly anisotropic
layered cuprate Bi_(2.15)Sr_(1.9)CuO_(6 + δ): Evidence for a
paramagnetically limited superconductivity

S. O. Katterwe,^(1,)1

Institut fur Luft und K$\ddot{a}$ltetechnik gemeinnutzige Gesellschaft
mbH, Bertolt-Brecht-Allee 20, D-01309 Dresden, Germany.

Footnote 1: vladimir.krasnov@fysik.su.se

Th. Jacobs,¹ A. Maljuk,² and V. M. Krasnov^(1,)

¹Department of Physics, Stockholm University, AlbaNova University
Center, SE-10691 Stockholm, Sweden

²Leibniz Institute for Solid State and Materials Research IFW Dresden,
Helmholtzstrasse 20, D-01171 Dresden, Germany

###### Abstract

We study angular-dependent magnetoresistance in a low-T_(c) layered
cuprate Bi_(2.15)Sr_(1.9)CuO_(6 + δ). The low T_(c) ∼ 4 K allows
complete suppression of superconductivity by modest magnetic fields and
facilitates accurate analysis of the upper critical field H_(c2). We
observe a universal exponential decay of fluctuation conductivity in a
broad range of temperatures above T_(c) and propose a method for
extraction of H_(c2)(T) from the scaling analysis of the fluctuation
conductivity at T > T_(c). Our main result is observation of a
surprisingly low H_(c2) anisotropy ∼2, which is much smaller than the
effective mass anisotropy of the material ∼300. We show that the
anisotropy is decreasing with increasing field and saturates at a small
value when the field reaches the paramagnetic limit. We argue that the
dramatic discrepancy of high-field and low-field anisotropies is clear
evidence for paramagnetically limited superconductivity.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.89.214516 PACS number(s): 74.25.F-, 74.25.Op,
74.40.-n, 74.72.Gh + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **89**,
214516 (2014)

## I Introduction

The upper critical field H_(c2) is one of the key parameters of type-II
superconductors [1]. It is particularly important for understanding
unconventional superconductivity [2, 3]. However, estimation of H_(c2)
for high-temperature superconductors is a notoriously difficult task.
The high T_(c) leads to an extended region of thermally activated flux
flow. The complex physics of anisotropic pinning and melting of the
vortex lattice [4] makes it hard, if at all possible [5], to confidently
obtain H_(c2) from flux-flow characteristics at T < T_(c)(H).

The high T_(c) in combination with a strong coupling leads to a large
superconducting energy gap Δ ∼ 20-50 meV [6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11] and
H_(c2)(0) ∼ 10² T [12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19]. Such strong fields
may alter the ground state of the material. For cuprates and pnictides
the parent state is antiferromagnetic. It has been demonstrated that
relatively weak fields can induce a canted ferromagnetic order in
strongly underdoped cuprates [20]. Furthermore, the normal state of
underdoped cuprates is characterized by the presence of the pseudogap
(PG), which probably represents a charge/spin or orbital density wave
order coexisting and competing with superconductivity [8, 10, 21, 22,
23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28]. Suppression of superconductivity by magnetic
field may enhance the competing PG, as follows from observation of a
charge density wave in a vortex core [9]. But even stronger magnetic
fields of several hundred teslas suppress the PG [29, 30]. Thus, both
superconducting and normal state properties are affected by strong
magnetic fields and separation of the two contributions is highly
nontrivial and controversial. Disentanglement of superconducting and PG
characteristics is difficult even above T_(c) due to the presence of
profound superconducting fluctuations [31, 32, 33]. Therefore, principal
new questions, which do not appear for low-T_(c) superconductors, are to
what extent H ∼ H_(c2) alters the abnormal normal state of high-T_(c)
superconductors and how to define the nonsuperconducting background in
measured characteristics.

For many unconventional superconductors the measured H_(c2) exceeds the
paramagnetic limit of the BCS theory [1, 34]. This has been reported for
organic [35, 36, 37], cuprate [14, 15], pnictide [38, 39, 40], and heavy
fermion [41, 42, 43] superconductors. Such an overshooting is an
important hint in a long-standing search for exotic spin-triplet and
Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov states (for review see, e.g., Ref.
[43]). Yet, the overshooting is not a proof of unconventional pairing
because the paramagnetic limit is rather flexible. It is increasing in
the presence of spin-orbit interaction [1] and in the two-dimensional
(2D) case and is lifted in the one-dimensional (1D) case [43, 44].
Unconventional superconductors are usually anisotropic. Some of them
have quasi-2D or possibly even quasi-1D structure. Many have a
significant spin-orbit interaction between localized spins and itinerant
charge carriers. Consequently, one needs a more robust criterion for the
paramagnetically (un)limited superconductivity in search for exotic
states of matter.

Here we investigate the anisotropy of H_(c2) in a strongly anisotropic
layered Bi_(2.15)Sr_(1.9)CuO_(6 + δ) (Bi-2201) cuprate with a low
T_(c) ∼ 4 K. The low T_(c) and the associated large disparity of
superconducting and pseudogap scales [30] allow simple and accurate
estimation of H_(c2) without complications typical for high-T_(c)
cuprates. We present a detailed analysis of angular dependence of
in-plane and out-of-plane magnetoresistance (MR) and demonstrate that
they exhibit very different behavior. We observe a universal
approximately exponential decay of the in-plane fluctuation
paraconductivity above T_(c) and propose a method for extraction of
H_(c2)(T) from a scaling analysis of fluctuations at T > T_(c). This
obviates the complexity of the flux-flow phenomena and allows
unambiguous extraction of H_(c2)(T). Remarkably, we obtained that the
anisotropy of the upper critical field H_(c2)¹/H_(c2)¹(T → 0) ≃ 2 is
much smaller than the anisotropy of the effective mass γ_(m) ≃ 300[45].
This discrepancy clearly indicates that H_(c2)¹ parallel to the CuO
planes is cut off by the paramagnetic limit.

Cuprates have homologous families with different number of CuO planes
per unit cell. Cuprates within the homologous family have similar
carrier concentrations, resistivities, anisotropies, and layeredness,
but largely different T_(c). For Bi-based cuprates the three-layer
compound Bi₂Sr₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(10 + δ) (Bi-2223) has a maximum T_(c) of ∼110 K,
the two-layer compound Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Bi-2212) has a T_(c) ∼ 95
K, and a single-layer compound Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(6 + δ) (Bi-2201) has an
optimal (with respect to oxygen doping) T_(c) that ranges from ∼30 K for
Bi/Pb and Sr/La substituted crystals [46] to just a few K in the pure
Bi-2201 compound [5, 47, 48, 49]. According to Ref. [48] the
stoichiometric Bi-2201 compound is nonsuperconducting and a finite T_(c)
appears only in off-stoichiometric Bi_(2 + x)Sr_(2 − y)CuO_(6 + δ)
compounds with x, y ≠ 0. Thus, the Bi/Sr off-stoichiometry allows fine
tuning of the maximum T_(c)[48, 49].

Development of high magnetic field techniques in recent years has lead
to significant progress in studies of H_(c2) in high-T_(c)
superconductors [13, 14, 18, 19]. But the problem of disentanglement of
superconducting and PG magnetic responses remains. It leads to a lack of
clear criteria for extraction of H_(c2) from measurement at H ∼ 100 T.
This problem is avoided in low-T_(c) cuprates because the relative
disparity between superconducting and pseudogap scales is increasing
with decreasing T_(c)[30]. Therefore, analysis of H_(c2) in low-T_(c)
cuprates should provide unambiguous information about the
superconducting state, not affected by interference with the coexisting
PG. This is the main motivation of the present work.

## II Experimental

Studied crystals are parts of one pristine Bi_(2.15)Sr_(1.9)CuO_(6 + δ)
single crystal with T_(c) ≃ 3.5 K. Growth and characterization of
crystals is described in Ref. [48]. Oxygen doping was consecutively
decreased by soft annealing in vacuum, which does not affect the crystal
quality [47]. We present data for a slightly overdoped (with respect to
oxygen content) T_(c) ≃ 4.0 K [OD(4.0)] and a nearly optimally doped
T_(c) ≃ 4.3 K [OP(4.3)] crystal.

Figure 1(a) shows an image of the studied sample OP(4.3). The sample
consists of ten micron-size mesa structures (two big and eight small)
with attached gold electrodes. In-plane resistance is measured with a
lock-in technique in a four-probe configuration by sending an ac current
through the left and right current contacts (big mesas), and measuring
the longitudinal voltage between a pair of small mesas. The c-axis
transport is measured in a three-probe configuration by sending a probe
current through one of the small mesas to one of the current contacts.
The voltage is measured with respect to unbiased contact pads. Details
of sample fabrication and measurement setup can be found in Ref. [30].

Figure 1(b) shows the c-axis resistance versus temperature at H = 0 and
14 T along the c axis. It is seen that R_(c)(T) exhibits an upturn at
T < T^(*) ∼ 110 K, indicating opening of the c-axis PG. According to
previous studies [30, 46, 50] such a T^(*) corresponds to a near
optimally doped (OP) (slightly underdoped) Bi-2201. A superconducting
transition occurs at a much lower T_(c) ≃ 4 K. The c-axis field of 14 T
completely suppresses the superconducting transition but does not change
significantly the PG characteristics due to a large disparity of
superconducting and PG scales in this low-T_(c) compound [30].

The large c-axis resistance R_(c) ∼ kΩ corresponds to a non-metallic
resistivity ρ_(c) ≃ 20Ω cm [30], which is much larger than the in-plane
resistivity ρ_(ab) ≃ (1-4) × 10⁻⁴Ω cm [51]. The anisotropy of
resistivity γ_(R) = ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) ∼ 10⁵ and the corresponding effective
mass anisotropy $\gamma_{m}=\sqrt{\gamma_{R}}\sim 300$ is very large
[45], similar to Bi-2212 [52] and Bi-2223 [53] cuprates. This reflects a
layered 2D structure of Bi-based cuprates with mobile electrons
localized on atomic CuO planes. The c-axis transport is caused by
interlayer tunneling. Below T_(c) this leads to appearance of an
intrinsic Josephson effect [54], observed in all Bi-based cuprates [6,
8, 16, 53, 55], including Bi-2201 [30, 50, 56]. Interlayer tunneling
creates the basis for the intrinsic tunneling spectroscopy technique [6,
8, 16, 30, 53] and facilitates simultaneous magnetotransport and
spectroscopic measurements, beneficial for analysis of H_(c2)[16].
Figure 1(c) shows the current-voltage I-V characteristics of a small
mesa at T = 1.8 K. A detailed analysis of intrinsic tunneling
characteristics of our Bi-2201 crystals can be found in Ref. [30]. The
small area of our mesas allows investigation of intrinsic tunneling
characteristics [6, 8, 16, 30, 53] without significant distortion by
self-heating [8].

## III In-plane and out-of-plane magnetoresistance

### In-plane magnetoresistance

Figures 2(a) and 2(b) show temperature dependencies of the in-plane
resistance R_(ab) at different magnetic fields (a) perpendicular and (b)
parallel to the ab planes for the OP(4.3) sample. For H ⊥ ab, R_(ab)
reaches the normal state value R_(n) already at T ≃ 10 T. For H ∥ ab the
field of 17 T still does not

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Scanning electron microscopy image of the
sample OP(4.3). (b) Temperature dependence of the c-axis resistance at
H = 0 and 14 T. The compound has a low T_(c) ≃ 4 K and the pseudogap
onset temperature T^(*) ≃ 110 K. (c) Current-voltage characteristic of a
small mesa at T = 1.8 K and H = 0.

completely suppress superconductivity. The difference is both due to the
anisotropy and due to different contributions from flux-flow and orbital
effects. The Lorentz force density f_(L) = (1/c)[J × B], where J is the
transport current density and B is the magnetic induction, acts both on
vortices and mobile charge carriers. In Fig. 2(a) H ⊥ H ∥ ab the Lorentz
force is at maximum and effectively drives pancake vortices [4] along
CuO planes. Therefore, R_(ab)(H ⊥ ab) is dominated by the flux-flow
contribution at T < T_(c)(H). In the case of Fig. 2(b) H ∥ ab ∥ I there
is no Lorentz force and the flux-flow contribution should be minimal.

Figure 2(c) represents a detailed comparison of R_(ab)(T) at H = 0 and
17 T for the two field orientations. We notice that the resistive
transition at H ∥ ab ∥ I is simply shifted towards a lower T due to
suppression of T_(c)(H). On the other hand R_(ab) at H ⊥ ab is also
shifted upwards, even at T ≫ T_(c). This indicates that there is an
additional positive MR in the normal state (∼1

### Out-of-plane magnetoresistance

Figures 3(a) and 3(b) show temperature dependencies of the c-axis
resistance R_(c) at different magnetic fields (a) perpendicular and (b)
parallel to the ab planes. Irrespective of field orientation, there are
both positive and negative contributions to c-axis MR. Figure 3(c)
represents a detailed comparison of R_(c)(T) at H = 0 and at H = 17 T
for the two field orientations. It is seen that in the normal state
there is a significant negative c-axis MR for both field orientations.
It is largest for H ⊥ ab and reaches almost 10

A positive MR appears only in the superconducting state T < T_(c)(H). It
is due to suppression of the interlayer Josephson current with respect
to the bias current [58, 59]. At H ∥ ab there is a profound Josephson
flux-flow phenomenon due to easy sliding of Josephson vortices along the
ab planes [55, 60]. This also leads to a positive MR with a peak at H
strictly parallel to the ab planes [61]. The negative c-axis MR persists

Figure 2: (Color online) T dependencies of the in-plane resistance at
magnetic fields (a) perpendicular and (b) parallel to the ab planes. (c)
Comparison of the data from (a) and (b) for zero and 17 T. For H ∥ ab
the R_(ab)(T) is shifted to lower temperatures. For H ⊥ ab the
superconducting transition is completely suppressed and R_(ab) is
shifted upwards, indicating presence of a positive orbital
magnetoresistance in the normal state. (d) MR in a perpendicular field
below and just above T_(c). Note that the saturation field ∼H_(c2)(T) is
decreasing with T → T_(c). Panels (e) and (f) show MR for both field
orientations (e) below and (f) above T_(c). The positive MR at T > T_(c)
is caused both by suppression of superconducting fluctuations and an
additional orbital normal state MR.

both in the superconducting [16] and the normal states and is attributed
to field suppression of either the superconducting gap Δ[16] or the
pseudogap Δ_(PG)[29]. For high-T_(c) Bi-2212 [6, 8] and Bi-2223 [53]
cuprates the corresponding energies (Δ∼ 30-50 meV, Δ_(PG)∼ 30-70 meV)
and fields (H_(c2)∼ 100-200 T, H^(*)∼ 200-300 T) are similar [16, 29]
and separation of the two contributions is difficult. However, in the
studied low-T_(c) superconductor the separation becomes trivial because,
as shown in Ref. [30], all PG characteristics remain similar to
high-T_(c) materials, but all superconducting characteristics scale down
with T_(c)[11], leading to a large disparity of superconducting and PG
characteristics.

Figures 3(d) and 3(e) show c-axis MR for different field orientations
and temperatures (d) below and (e) above T_(c). It is seen that the
negative MR persists at H > H_(c2)^(⊥)∼ 10 T and at T > T_(c) and is due
to field suppression of the PG [29, 30]. Figure 3(f) shows pulsed field
measurements of R_(c)(H^(⊥)) at T= 1.6 K up to 65 T for a slightly
underdoped crystal from the same batch (data from Ref. [30]). It is seen
that at high fields R_(c)(H^(⊥)) is approximately linear in the
semilogarithmic scale. An extrapolation to the normal resistance R_(n)∼
160 Ω yields the PG closing field H^(*)∼ 300 T. It corresponds to the
Zeeman energy gμ_(B)H^(*)∼ 35 meV  ≃ Δ_(PG)[30].

### Angular magnetoresistance at T < T_(c)

Angular dependence of the upper critical field H_(c2)(Θ) is given by the
following equations:

$$\left(\frac{H_{c2}(\Theta)\sin\Theta}{H_{c2}^{\perp}}\right)^{2}+\left(\frac{H _{c2}(\Theta)\cos\Theta}{H_{c2}^{\parallel}}\right)^{2}=1$$
(1)

for a three-dimensional (3D) superconductor and

$$\left|\frac{H_{c2}(\Theta)\sin\Theta}{H_{c2}^{\perp}}\right|+\left(\frac{H_{c2 }(\Theta)\cos\Theta}{H_{c2}^{\parallel}}\right)^{2}=1$$
(2)

for the 2D case. In the simplest case of an isotropic superconductor the
flux-flow resistivity can be approximately estimated from the
Bardeen-Stephen model [62],

$$R(\Theta)=R_{n}\frac{H}{H_{c2}(\Theta)}.$$
(3)

It connects the angular MR R(Θ) with H_(c2)(Θ). The main qualitative
difference between 3D and 2D cases is that R(Θ = 0^(∘)) has a smooth
minimum in the 3D case and a sharp cusplike dip in the 2D case [63].

Figures 4(a) and 4(b) show angular dependencies of the in-plane
resistance R_(ab)(Θ) at T= 2 K measured upon rotation around two
orthogonal axes in the ab plane (a) perpendicular and (b) parallel to
the current. In both cases Θ= 90^(∘) corresponds to H ⊥ ab, H ⊥ I. But
Θ = 0^(∘) corresponds to either (a) the Lorentz force-free configuration
H ∥ I, or (b) to the case H ⊥ I when the Lorentz force is acting on
Josephson vortices in the direction perpendicular to layers. Dashed
lines in (b) represent properly scaled data from panel (a) [64]. It is
seen that the behavior in both cases is very similar. Therefore, at
H ∥ ab the flux-flow contribution to R_(ab) is small either due to zero
Lorentz force or a strong intrinsic pinning in the layered
superconductor [65, 66, 67], which prevents motion of Josephson vortices
across the planes.

Figure 4(c) shows angular dependencies of the c-axis resistance. Apart
from the dip at Θ ∼ 0^(∘) due to the anisotropy

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependencies of the c-axis
resistance for (a) H ⊥ ab and (b) H ∥ ab. (c) Comparison of the data
from (a) and (b) for H= 0 and 17 T. Panels (d) and (e) show c-axis MR
for the two field orientations (d) below and (e) above T_(c). It is seen
that the normal state negative MR is present for both field
orientations. (f) R_(c)(H^(⊥)) measured up to 65 T (data from Ref.
[30]). It is seen that there is both a positive MR at low fields due to
suppression of the supercurrent and a negative MR at high fields due to
suppression of the PG.

of H_(c2), the R_(c)(Θ) has an additional sharp maximum at Θ = 0^(∘) due
to onset of the Josephson flux-flow phenomenon [61]. In this case the
Lorentz force is directed along the ab planes and easily drags Josephson
vortices with low pinning and viscosity [60]. The shape of R_(c)(Θ) at
large angles is visibly affected by the negative normal state MR, which
causes a shallow minimum of R_(c)(Θ) at Θ = 90^(∘) at large fields.

From Figs. 4(a)-4(c) it is seen that R(Θ) exhibits a cusp at Θ = 0^(∘),
indicating the 2D nature of superconductivity in CuO planes. The cusp
becomes narrower and sharper with increasing field. This is in a
qualitative agreement with calculations for the 2D model using Eqs. (2)
and (3), shown in Fig. 4(d). The sharpening of the cusp at Θ = 0^(∘)
occurs when the field becomes larger than H_(c2)^(⊥). In this case the
sample is in the normal state with a flat R_(ab)(Θ) = R_(a) for angles
Θ ∼ 90^(∘) at which H_(c2)(Θ) < H. As the field approaches H_(c2)^(∥),
superconductivity survives only in a narrow range of angles Θ ∼ 0^(∘).
Therefore, a significant narrowing of the cusp at H = 17 T in Figs.
4(a)-4(c) indicates that H_(c2)^(∥) is close to 17 T.

The anisotropy of H_(c2) can be analyzed from comparison of
angular-dependent R(Θ) with MR at the corresponding parallel
R(H^(∥) = Hcos (Θ)) and perpendicular R(H^(⊥) = Hsin (Θ)) field
orientations. If one of the field components is smaller than the
corresponding H_(c2), adding an orthogonal component will contribute to
suppression of superconductivity. But if the field component is larger
than H_(c2), then an extra field component will not give a significant
contribution to MR. In Figs. 4(e) and 4(f) we perform such the
comparison at T = 2 K. Black symbols in Fig. 4(e) represent R_(ab)(Θ) at
H = 17 T from Fig. 4(a) as a function of sin²(Θ). The solid red line
represents the MR in solely the perpendicular field component
R_(ab)(H^(⊥) = Hsin (Θ)). The dashed blue line represents a sum of
resistances in the corresponding perpendicular and parallel field
components R_(ab)(H^(⊥) = Hsin (Θ)) + R_(ab)(H^(∥) = Hcos (Θ)), shown in
Fig. 2(e). It is seen that at sin²(Θ) ≳ 0.35 the angular MR is
determined almost entirely by H^(⊥) and an additional H^(∥) does not
contribute significantly to MR. This angle corresponds to
H^(⊥) = Hsin (Θ) > H_(c2)^(⊥) ≃ 10 T, as indicated by a vertical arrow
in Fig. 4(e). At larger angles superconductivity is already suppressed
because H^(⊥) > H_(c2)^(⊥) and MR becomes insensitive to an additional
parallel field component. Such the analysis confirms that
H_(c2)^(⊥) ≃ 10 T. At smaller angles H^(⊥) < H_(c2)^(⊥) and H^(∥) does
contribute to MR, although not additively.

Figure 4(f) represents a similar comparison for the out-of-plane
resistance. Solid and dashed lines represent the MR solely in
perpendicular and parallel fields from Fig. 3(d). Apparently, R_(c)(Θ)
is not determined by a single field component. The most pronounced
feature of R_(c)(sin²(Θ)) is a rapid drop at sin (Θ) → 0, which reflects
the corresponding behavior of R_(c)(H^(⊥)). Therefore, the crystal still
maintains some superconductivity at H^(∥) = 17 T, but it is rapidly
suppressed by a small additional H^(⊥) component upon a slight rotation
of the crystal. Consequently, H_(c2)^(∥)(2 K) is slightly larger than 17
T. On the other hand, since H_(c2)^(⊥) < 17 T, there is no similar drop
at sin (Θ) = 1.

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) and (b) Angular dependencies of in-plane
resistances for rotation around two orthogonal axes in the ab plane.
Dashed lines in (b) represent scaled data from (a) [64]. (c) Angular
dependence of the c-axis resistance. The peak at Θ = 0^(∘) is due to
onset of Josephson flux flow. (d) Theoretical angular dependencies of
flux-flow resistances for a 2D model with an anisotropy γ = 5. Note that
the cusp at Θ = 0^(∘) becomes sharper at H > H_(c2)^(⊥) because
superconductivity survives only in a narrow range of angles around
Θ = 0^(∘). A similar narrowing is seen in panels (a)–(c). Panels (e) and
(f) represent comparison of (e) in-plane and (f) out-of-plane angular MR
(symbols) with resistances at the corresponding perpendicular
H^(⊥) = Hsin (Θ) (solid lines) and parallel H^(∥) = Hcos (Θ) field
components at T = 2 K and H = 17 T.

## IV Fluctuation magnetoresistance

From comparison of Figs. 4(a), 4(b), and 4(d) it is clear that Eqs. (2)
and (3) only explain the narrowing of the cusp, but do not fit the R(Θ)
data. This demonstrates the inappropriateness of Eq. (3) for layered
superconductors because it does not take into consideration
transformation of the vortex structure, the pinning strength, and the
Lorentz force upon rotation of the crystal. Furthermore, Eq. (3) assumes
that the resistance always reaches the normal state value R_(n) at
H = H_(c2) and thus neglects the remaining fluctuation paraconductivity
at H > H_(c2)[33]. As discussed above, R_(ab)(Θ = 0^(∘)) should have
minimal flux-flow contribution due to either zero Lorentz force or
presence of a strong intrinsic pinning. Consequently, the dip in
resistance at Θ = 0^(∘) in Fig. 4(a) and the major part of the resistive
transition 0 < R < R_(n) at H ∥ ab ∥ I in Fig. 2(b) are due to
fluctuation conductivity, rather than flux flow. Without flux flow,
H_(c2) would correspond to the onset of resistivity R ∼ 0, rather than
R = R_(n). This has been demonstrated by simultaneous tunneling and
transport measurements for conventional superconductors [16]. Without
exact knowledge of the flux-flow contribution it is impossible to
confidently extract H_(c2) from R(T, H) data at T < T_(c). The lack of
criteria for R(H = H_(c2)) obscures estimation of H_(c2)[5]. Therefore,
in the remaining part of the paper we will focus on the analysis of the
fluctuation part of MR at T > T_(c). As we will demonstrate, such data
do not suffer from ambiguity associated with the flux-flow phenomenon
and facilitate confident extraction of H_(c2).

### Angular magnetoresistance at T > T_(c)

Figure 5 (a) shows angular dependencies of the in-plane resistance at
H = 10 T and at different T close and above T_(c) ≃ 4.3 K. Here
Θ = 0^(∘) corresponds to zero Lorentz force configuration H ∥ ab ∥ I. It
is seen that the cusp at Θ = 0^(∘), characteristic for the 2D
superconducting state, is rapidly diminishing with increasing T > T_(c).
It disappears at ∼2T_(c). At T ≳ 10 K it turns into a shallow minimum,
which persists to T ≫ T_(c) and represents the anisotropy of the
positive orbital MR in the normal state.

Figure 5(b) shows angular dependencies of the c-axis resistance below
and above T_(c). Here, measurements were performed at bias above the
Josephson flux-flow branch in the I-V so that the Josephson flux-flow
peak in R_(c)(Θ = 0^(∘)) does not occur [61]. Above T_(c) the cusp in
R_(c)(Θ) = 0^(∘) completely disappears and only a shallow maximum at
Θ = 0^(∘) remains, which indicates a small angular anisotropy of the
normal state MR, as seen from Fig. 3(e). In Fig. 5(c) we show angular
dependencies of in-plane and c-axis resistances, normalized by the
corresponding values at Θ = 90^(∘). One can see a shallow 3D behavior in
the normal state.

In Fig. 5(d) we show absolute values of the angular MR amplitude
∣ΔMR(Θ = 0^(∘)) = R(0^(∘))/R(090^(∘)) − 1∣, normalized by the magnetic
field, for the in-plane and the c-axis resistances. The in-plane
ΔMR_(ab) (circles) is large in the superconducting state and remains
significant in the fluctuation region at T_(c) < T ≲ 2T_(c) when the
cusp in R_(ab)(Θ = 0^(∘)) is observed; see Fig. 5(a). With increasing T,
∣ΔMR_(ab)∣ rapidly

Figure 5: (Color online) Angular dependence of (a) in-plane and (b)
c-axis resistances at H = 10 T for different temperatures. The cusp at
Θ = 0^(∘) is vanishing at T ≳ 2T_(c) for R_(ab) and at T > T_(c) for
R_(c). (c) Angular-dependent MR above T_(c), normalized by
R(Θ = 90^(∘)). At T ≥ 10 K the MR is varying in a smooth 3D manner. (d)
Temperature dependencies of absolute values of angular MR amplitudes
normalized by the field (in the semilogarithmic scale). Note that the
in-plane MR decays at a scale T ∼ T_(c) and the out-of-plane MR at the
PG temperature T^(*) ≃ 110 K. Panels (e) and (f) represent comparison of
(e) in-plane and (f) out-of-plane angular MR at T = 7.7 K  > T_(c) with
the MR at the corresponding parallel and perpendicular field components.
The in-plane angular MR at not too small angles is dominated by the
perpendicular field component (solid line). The c-axis angular MR is
given by the additive contribution of the two field components (dashed
lines).

decreases. At T > 20 K it flattens off. The remaining weakly T-dependent
value represents the anisotropy of the positive in-plane MR in the
normal state, presumably of the orbital origin. The out-of-plane
$\mid\Delta{\rm MR}_{c}\mid$ (squares) decreases almost exponentially
with increasing temperature in a wide T range above T_(c). It becomes
hardly detectable above the pseudogap opening temperature T^(*) ≃ 110 K,
while the in-plane $\Delta{\rm MR}_{ab}$ still remains recognizable.

A different behavior of in-plane and out-of-plane MR can be also seen
from comparison of individual and combined contributions of the two
field components. Symbols in Figs. 5(e) and 5(f) show angular-dependent
(e) in-plane and (f) c-axis MR at T = 7.7 K  > T_(c) as a function of
sin²(Θ). Dashed blue lines represent additive contributions from the two
field components, R = R₀ + ΔR(H^(⊥)) + ΔR(H^(∥)), where R₀ = R(H = 0),
and ΔR(H^(⊥)) and ΔR(H^(∥)) are the corresponding MR solely in
perpendicular and parallel fields, shown in Figs. 2(f) and 3(e). It is
seen that the c-axis MR is well described by the simple additive
contribution of the two field components, while the in-plane does not.
This reflects different mechanisms of in-plane and out-of-plane
magnetoresistances. The negative c-axis MR is due to field suppression
of the pseudogap. The applied field is much smaller than the PG closing
field H^(*) ∼ 300 T [30]. Therefore, the c-axis MR is far from
saturation and is approximately linear in field, leading to additive,
independent from each other, contribution from the two field components.

The positive in-plane MR at T_(c) < T ≲ 2T_(c) is mostly due to
suppression of superconducting fluctuations with the characteristic
field H_(c2)^(⊥) ∼ 10 T, which is in the range of applied fields. This
leads to saturation of MR and to nonadditive contribution of the two
field components. Unlike the normal state angular MR, which has a 3D
character, as shown in Fig. 5(c), superconducting fluctuations at
T_(c) < T ≲ 2T_(c) remain quasi-2D, as seen from the cusp in
R_(ab)(Θ = 0) in Fig. 5(b). The solid line in Fig. 5(e) indicates that
at not too small angles the in-plane MR is determined by the c-axis
field component.

### Fluctuation conductivity

Fluctuation paraconductivity is seen as a tail of the in-plane resistive
transitions from Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) at T_(c) < T ≲ 10 K, in the same
range where the cusp is seen in the angular MR, Fig. 5(a). Figures
6(a)-6(c) represent normalized excess conductivities
Δσ_(ab)(T) = 1/R_(ab)(T) − 1/R_(n)(T), in perpendicular and parallel
magnetic fields. Here we used different approximations for R_(n): (a)
R_(n)^(⊥)(T) = R_(ab)(T, H^(⊥) = 14 T), (b)
R_(n)^(∥)(T) = R_(ab)(T, H^(∥) = 17 T), and (c) a linear extrapolation
from high T, shown by the dashed line in Fig. 2(b).

It is seen that for both field orientations the fluctuation conductivity
at T > T_(c) decreases approximately linearly in the semilogarithmic
scale with almost field-independent slopes. This implies

Δσ_(ab)(T, H) ∝ exp {−a[T − T_(c)(H)]},
(4)

where a is some constant. A similar exponential decay has been reported
for other cuprates [16, 49, 68]. Even though such an exponential decay
does not follow explicitly from theoretical analysis of fluctuation
conductivity [33, 69], it allows an

Figure 6: (Color online) Fluctuation part of the in-plane conductivity
Δσ_(ab)(T) = 1/R_(ab)(T) − 1/R_(n)(T), normalized by the normal state
resistance, for fields (a) perpendicular and (b), (c) parallel to the ab
plane. Curves in panels (b) and (c) were obtained from the same data
using different R_(n)(T): (b) R_(n) = R_(ab)(H = 17 T), (c) linear
extrapolation from high T, shown by the dashed line in Fig. 2(b). It is
seen that fluctuation paraconductivity decays approximately
exponentially with increasing T with an almost field independent slope.
Panels (d) and (e) show data from (a) and (c), respectively, shifted by
T_(c)(H). (f) Field dependence of paraconductivity Δσ_(ab)(H^(⊥)) at
different T. An approximately exponential decay is seen.

unambiguous determination of the characteristic temperature scale
T_(c)(H) from the relative shift of the curves along the T axis with
respect to the known T_(c)(H = 0). Since the Δσ_(ab)(T) curves in Figs.
6(a)-6(c) remain almost parallel at different H, such determination of
T_(c)(H) does not suffer from widening of the resistive transition, as
in the flux-flow case at T < T_(c) in Fig. 2(a). Therefore, thus
obtained T_(c)(H) has the same degree of certainty as T_(c)(H = 0).

Equation (4) suggests that Δσ(T, H) curves could be collapsed in one by
shifting them along the T axis by T_(c)(H). In Figs. 6(d) and 6(e) we
show such an attempt for the data from Figs. 6(a) and 6(c),
respectively. Even though the scaling is not always perfect, the shift
parameter T_(c)(H) is determined unambiguously because (i) the shift for
the curve at H = 0 is fixed by T_(c)(0); (ii) the curves from low to
intermediate fields do collapse at high enough T; (iii) when the curves
do not collapse, we required that fluctuation conductivity for a given
T − T_(c)(H) should be decreasing with increasing H because
superconductivity is suppressed by magnetic field. This means that the
Δσ(T − T_(c)(H)) curves at higher H should always lie lower and should
not cross the curves at smaller H. In Fig. 6(d) the curve Δσ(T, H = 10
T) was not shifted at all, implying that T_(c)(H = 10 T) = 0, which is
consistent with our previous estimation of H_(c2)^(⊥)(T = 0) ≃ 10 T.

Figure 6(f) represents a semilogarithmic plot of Δσ_(ab)R_(n) vs H ⊥ ab
for the OD(4.0) sample at T = 1.8 K and slightly above T_(c) at T = 4.2
K. It is seen that Δσ_(ab)(H) decays almost exponentially also as a
function of field at constant T. In this case the relative shift along
the horizontal axis provides the characteristic magnetic field scale for
suppression of superconductivity ∼H_(c2). Assuming that H_(c2) = 0 at
T = 4.2 K  ∼ T_(c), we estimate from the relative shift of the two
curves that H_(c2)^(⊥)(T = 2 K)  ≃ 6 T. This is consistent with
T_(c)(H^(⊥) = 6 T)  ≃ 2 K, estimated from Δσ_(ab)(T) scaling in Fig.
6(d). Thus, from the analysis of fluctuation conductivity we obtain a
confident estimation of T_(c)(H) or equivalently H_(c2)(T).

### The upper critical field

Figure 7(a) contains the main result of this work: T dependencies of
H_(c2) obtained from the analysis of fluctuation conductivity, Eq. (4),
at T > T_(c)(H) (filled symbols). Filled blue and red squares represent
H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) for OD(4.0) and OP(4.3) crystals, respectively. Horizontal
and vertical error bars correspond to the accuracy of scaling of
Δσ(T, H) curves according to Eq. (4), as seen in Figs. 6(d) and 6(f).

Estimation of H_(c2)^(∥) at low T is complicated by the lack of
confident knowledge of R_(n)(T). In Figs. 6(b) and 6(c) we used two
different approximations of R_(n)(H^(∥)). Filled circles and rhombuses
represent H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) for the OP(4.3) crystal, obtained from the
scaling of data in Fig. 6(b) and Figs. 6(c) and 6(f), respectively. Up
to H^(∥) = 10 T both approximations of R_(n) give the same
H_(c2)^(⊥)(T). Therefore, those values are confident. However, at H > 12
T results start to depend on the choice of R_(n)(T). Unfortunately, none
of the two approximations is good enough at T → 0. Qualitatively,
R_(n) = R_(ab)(H^(∥) = 17 T) tends to underestimate H_(c2)^(∥) because
it assumes H_(c2)^(∥)(T = 0) = 17 T. The linear extrapolation of
R_(n)(T > T_(c)) tends to overestimate H_(c2)^(∥)(T = 0) because it
assumes that R(H = H_(c2)) = R_(n). However, without the flux-flow
phenomenon R(H = H_(c2)) ≃ 0[16]. This is what we expect for our Lorentz
force free data at H ∥ ab. In the absence of a better way to define
H_(c2)^(∥) at low T, in Fig. 7(a) we also show fields H_(50%)(T) at
which middle points of resistive transitions occur for in-plane (open
circles) and c-axis (open squares) resistances. Those points fall in
between the underestimating (solid circles) and overestimating
(rhombuses) analysis of fluctuation conductivity. Therefore, they
provide a reasonable estimate of H_(c2)^(∥) at lower T.

From Fig. 7(a) it is seen that H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) and H_(c2)^(∥)(T) are
qualitatively different. The H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) is almost linear in the whole
T range H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) ∝ T_(c) − T. Such a behavior is consistent with

Figure 7: (Color online) (a) The upper critical field perpendicular
(filled squares) and parallel to layers (filled circles and rhombuses)
obtained from the scaling analysis of fluctuation conductivity according
to Eq. (4) at T > T_(c)(H). For comparison we also show middle points
H_(50%)(T) of in-plane (small open circles) and out-of-plane (small open
squares) resistive transitions in parallel field. The dashed line
represents the $\sqrt{T_{c}-T}$ dependence. Open triangles (right axis)
show T dependence of the superconducting gap, obtained by intrinsic
tunneling spectroscopy [30]. (b) T dependence of the anisotropy of the
upper critical field γ_(H) = H_(c2)^(⊥)/H_(c2)^(⊥). It is seen that at
low temperature it saturates at a small value γ_(H)(0) ∼ 2. (c) Angular
anisotropy of the in-plane resistance R_(ab)(90^(∘))/R_(ab)(0^(∘)) at
T = 2 K as a function of magnetic field. The anisotropy rapidly
decreases with increasing H as soon as the field approaches the
paramagnetic limit.

a conventional orbital upper critical field,

$$H_{c2}^{\perp}=\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\pi\xi_{ab}^{2}},$$
(5)

where Φ₀ is the flux quantum and ξ_(ab) is the in-plane coherence
length, ξ_(ab)(0) = 5.5 ± 0.2 nm.

The H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) is clearly nonlinear. The dashed line in Fig. 7(a)
demonstrates that $H_{c2}^{\perp}(T)\propto\sqrt{T_{c}-T}$. At first
glance, it resembles the behavior of H_(c2)^(∥)(T) in thin film
multilayers [65, 67],

$$H_{c2}^{\parallel}=\frac{\sqrt{3}\Phi_{0}}{\pi\xi_{ab}d},$$
(6)

where d is the thickness of superconducting layers. However, the
corresponding d = 9.3 ± 0.5 nm is much larger than the thickness of CuO
layers ∼0.2 nm, as noted previously in Ref. [14], and is not connected
to any geometrical length scale of the sample. Consequently, there is no
agreement with Eq. (6).

### The paramagnetic limit

The upper limit of H_(c2) is determined by Pauli paramagnetism. The
spin-singlet pairing is destroyed when the Zeeman spin-split energy
becomes comparable to the superconducting energy gap Δ. This gives [1,
34]

$$H_{p}=\frac{\sqrt{2}\Delta}{g\mu_{B}},$$
(7)

where g is the gyromagnetic ratio and μ_(B) is the Bohr magneton. In the
case of negligible spin-orbit coupling g ≃ 2 this yields
dH_(c2)/dT(T = T_(c)) = −2.25 T/K for d-wave superconductors [70]. Our
values H_(c2)^(⊥)/T_(c) ≃ 2.5 T/K and ∣dH_(c2)^(⊥)/dT ∣ (T = T_(c)) ≃ 5
T/K and especially H_(c2)^(∥)/T_(c) ≃ 5 T/K and
∣dH_(c2)^(∥)/dT ∣ (T = T_(c)) > 40 T/K clearly exceed this limit. Most
importantly, H_(p) does not depend on orientation of the field.
Therefore, paramagnetically limited H_(c2) should be approximately
isotropic, irrespective of the underlying effective mass anisotropy.

According to Eq. (7), H_(p) is determined solely by Δ. Open triangles in
Fig. 7(a) show Δ(T) dependence measured by intrinsic tunneling
spectroscopy on a slightly underdoped crystal from the same batch [30].
It matches nicely H_(c2)^(∥)(T). Therefore, we conclude that the
observed $H_{c2}^{\parallel}(T)\propto\sqrt{T_{c}-T}$ dependence is not
originating from the geometrical confinement, Eq. (6), but follows the
corresponding Δ(T) dependence of H_(p) in Eq. (7).

Figure 7(b) shows the anisotropy of the upper critical field
γ_(H) = H_(c2)^(⊥)/H_(c2)^(⊥). Close to T_(c) it diverges due to
different T dependencies of the two fields. However, at T ≪ T_(c) it
shows a tendency for saturation at γ_(H)(T → 0) ∼ 2. Such a low
anisotropy of H_(c2) is remarkable for the layered Bi-2201 compound with
γ_(m) ∼ 300[45].

In Fig. 7(c) we show magnetic field dependence of the angular anisotropy
[R_(ab)(90^(∘))/R_(ab)(0^(∘))]^(1/2) obtained from the data in Fig.
4(a). The anisotropy is large at low fields, but rapidly decreases at
H > 7 T when the paramagnetic limitation starts to play a role. At high
fields it tends to saturate at ∼2, consistent with γ_(H) in Fig. 7(b).
As mentioned above, paramagnetically limited H_(c2) should be isotropic.
Therefore, a finite residual anisotropy γ_(H)(T → 0) ∼ 2 indicates that
only H_(c2)^(∥) is paramagnetically limited, while H_(c2)^(⊥) is still
governed by orbital effects. Finally we note that γ_(H) < γ_(m) was
reported for several unconventional superconductors [13, 14, 35, 36]. In
particular, a nearly isotropic H_(c2) was reported for the (Ba,K)Fe₂As₂
pnictide [71] despite a quasi-2D electronic structure. It is likely that
all those observations have the same origin.

## V Conclusions

To conclude, we presented a comprehensive analysis of both in-plane and
out-of-plane magnetoresistance in a layered cuprate
Bi_(2.15)Sr_(1.9)CuO_(6 + δ) with a low T_(c) ≃ 4 K. We have shown that
the in-plane and the out-of-plane resistances behave differently almost
in all respects. The in-plane magnetoresistance has two positive
contributions. The positive in-plane MR due to suppression of
superconductivity (or superconducting fluctuations) is dominant at
T ≲ 2T_(c) and magnetic fields H_(c2) ≲ 10 T. It is clearly
distinguishable by its 2D cusplike angular dependence. At T ≳ 2T_(c) the
superconducting contribution vanishes and only a weakly T-dependent
positive MR, presumably of orbital origin, remains. Such normal state
in-plane MR has a smooth 3D-type angular dependence. The c-axis MR at
T > T_(c) is dominated by a negative MR caused by suppression of the
pseudogap. It decays rapidly upon approaching the PG opening temperature
T^(*) ≃ 110 K  ≫ T_(c) and at the PG closing field H^(*) ∼ 300 T
 ≫ H_(c2), and exhibits a smooth 3D-type angular dependence. Different
behavior of the in-plane and the out-of-plane MR underlines different
origins of superconductivity and the c-axis pseudogap, which becomes
particularly obvious from analysis of low-T_(c) cuprates [30].

The main focus of our work was on analysis of fluctuation conductivity
at T > T_(c). We observed a universal, nearly exponential, decay of
in-plane paraconductivity as a function of temperature and magnetic
field and proposed a method for extraction of H_(c2) based on a scaling
analysis of the fluctuation paraconductivity. This way we obtained
confident values of H_(c2), avoiding the complexity of flux-flow
phenomena at T < T_(c). We observed that H_(c2)^(⊥) is following a
linear T dependence H_(c2)^(⊥) ∝ 1 − T/T_(c), typical for H_(c2) limited
by orbital effects. On the other hand, H_(c2)^(∥) follows the T
dependence of the superconducting gap with a characteristic
∝$\sqrt{1-T/T_{c}}$ dependence close to T_(c). Our main result is
observation of a remarkably low anisotropy of the upper critical field
γ_(H)(T → 0) ≃ 2, which is much smaller than the effective mass
anisotropy γ_(m) ∼ 300. This demonstrates that the anisotropy of H_(c2)
in unconventional superconductors may have nothing to do with the
anisotropy of the electronic structure and the actual anisotropy of
superconductivity at zero field. The large discrepancy in anisotropies
serves instead as robust evidence for paramagnetically limited
superconductivity.

## Acknowledgments

Technical support from the Core Facility in Nanotechnology at Stockholm
University is gratefully acknowledged. We are grateful to A. Rydh and M.
V. Kartsovnik for assistance in experiment and useful remarks.

## References

* [1] D. Saint-James, G. Sarma, and E. J. Thomas, _Type-II
Superconductivity_ (Pergamon Press, Oxford, NY, 1969). * [2] A.
Gurevich, Physica C **456**, 160 (2007). * [3] V. G. Kogan and R.
Prozorov, Rep. Prog. Phys. **75**, 114502 (2012). * [4] G. Blatter, M.
V. Feigel’man, V. B. Geshkenbein, A. I. Larkin, and V. M. Vinokur, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **66**, 1125 (1994). * [5] S. I. Vedeneev, A. G. M. Jansen,
E. Haanappel, and P. Wyder, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 12467 (1999). * [6] V.
M. Krasnov, A. Yurgens, D. Winkler, P. Delsing, and T. Claeson, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **84**, 5860 (2000). * [7] O. Fischer, M. Kugler, I.
Maggio-Aprile, C. Berthod, and C. Renner, Rev. Mod. Phys. **79**, 353
(2007). * [8] V. M. Krasnov, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 214510 (2009). * [9]
J. E. Hoffman, E. W. Hudson, K. M. Lang, V. Madhavan, H. Eisaki, S.
Uchida, and J. C. Davis, Science **295**, 466 (2002). * [10] A.
Damascelli, Z. Hussain, and Z. X. Shen, Rev. Mod. Phys. **75**, 473
(2003). * [11] S. I. Ideta, T. Yoshida, A. Fujimori, H. Anzai, T.
Fujita, A. Ino, M. Arita, H. Namatame, M. Taniguchi, Z. X. Shen, K.
Takashima, K. Kojima, and S. I. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 104515
(2012). * [12] J. L. O’Brien, H. Nakagawa, A. S. Dzurak, R. G. Clark, B.
E. Kane, N. E. Lumpkin, R. P. Starrett, N. Miura, E. E. Mitchell, J. D.
Goettee, D. G. Rickel, and J. S. Brooks, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 1584
(2000). * [13] T. Sekitani, N. Miura, S. Ikeda, Y. H. Matsuda, and Y.
Shiohara, Physica B **346**-**347**, 319 (2004). * [14] S. I. Vedeneev,
C. Proust, V. P. Mineev, M. Nardone, and G. L. J. A. Rikken, Phys. Rev.
B **73**, 014528 (2006). * [15] P. Li, F. F. Balakirev, and R. L.
Greene, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 172508 (2007). * [16] V. M. Krasnov, H.
Motzkau, T. Golod, A. Rydh, S. O. Katterwe, and A. B. Kulakov, Phys.
Rev. B **84**, 054516 (2011). * [17] B. J. Ramshaw, J. Day, B. Vignolle,
D. LeBoeuf, P. Dosanjh, C. Proust, L. Taillefer, R. Liang, W. N. Hardy,
and D. A. Bonn, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 174501 (2012). * [18] J. Chang, N.
Doiron-Leyraud, O. Cyr-Choiniere, G. Grissonnanche, F. Laliberte, E.
Hassinger, J-Ph. Reid, R. Daou, S. Pyon, T. Takayama, H. Takagi, and L.
Taillefer, Nat. Phys. **8**, 751 (2012). * [19] G. Grissonnanche _et
al._, Nat. Commun. **5**, 3280 (2014). * [20] Y. Ando, A. N. Lavrov, and
S. Komiya, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 247003 (2003). * [21] J. L. Tallon
and J. W. Loram, Physica C **349**, 53 (2001). * [22] I. M. Vishik _et
al._, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **109**, 18332 (2012). * [23] F.
Onufrieva and P. Pfeuty, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 257001 (2012). * [24]
J. D. Sau, I. Mandal, S. Tewari, and S. Chakravarty, Phys. Rev. B
**87**, 224503 (2013). * [25] M. E. Simon and C. M. Varma, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **89**, 247003 (2002). * [26] C. Weber, A. Lauchli, F. Mila, and
T. Giamarchi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 017005 (2009). * [27] J.
Orenstein and J. E. Moore, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 165110 (2013). * [28] A.
M. Gabovich and A. I. Voitenko, Low. Temp. Phys. **39**, 232 (2013). *
[29] T. Kawakami, T. Shibauchi, Y. Terao, M. Suzuki, and L.
Krusin-Elbaum, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 017001 (2005). * [30] Th.
Jacobs, S. O. Katterwe, H. Motzkau, A. Rydh, A. Maljuk, T. Helm, C.
Putzke, E. Kampert, M. V. Kartsovnik, and V. M. Krasnov, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 214506 (2012). * [31] A. Dubroka _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**106**, 047006 (2011). * [32] T. Kondo, Y. Hamaya, A. D. Palczewski, T.
Takeuchi, J. S. Wen, Z. J. Xu, G. Gu, J. Schmalian, and A. Kaminski,
Nat. Phys. **7**, 21 (2011). * [33] A. Glatz, A. A. Varlamov, and V. M.
Vinokur, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 104510 (2011). * [34] A. M. Clogston,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). * [35] F. Zuo, J. S. Brooks, R. H.
McKenzie, J. A. Schlueter, and J. M. Williams, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 750
(2000). * [36] J. Singleton, Rep. Prog. Phys. **63**, 1111 (2000). *
[37] I. J. Lee, P. M. Chaikin, and M. J. Naughton, Phys. Rev. B **62**,
R14669 (2000). * [38] K. Cho, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, Y. J. Song, Y. S.
Kwon, W. A. Coniglio, C. C. Agosta, A. Gurevich, and R. Prozorov, Phys.
Rev. B **83**, 060502 (2011). * [39] S. Khim, B. Lee, J. W. Kim, E. S.
Choi, G. R. Stewart, and K. H. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 104502
(2011). * [40] P. Burger, F. Hardy, D. Aoki, A. E. Bohmer, R. Eder, R.
Heid, T. Wolf, P. Schweiss, R. Fromknecht, M. J. Jackson, C. Paulsen,
and C. Meingast, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 014517 (2013). * [41] H. A.
Radovan, N. A. Fortune, T. P. Murphy, S. T. Hannahs, E. C. Palm, S. W.
Tozer, and D. Hall, Nature (London) **425**, 51 (2003). * [42] K.
Kakuyanagi, M. Saitoh, K. Kumagai, S. Takashima, M. Nohara, H. Takagi,
and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 047602 (2005). * [43] Y.
Matsuda and H. Shimahara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 051005 (2007). *
[44] A. I. Buzdin and J. P. Brison, Europhys. Lett. **35**, 707
(1996). * [45] L. Ya. Vinnikov, A. G. Jukina, V. N. Zverev, A. D.
Shovkun, and A. B. Kulakov, Zh. Exp. Teor. Fiz. **146** Nr. 2, (2014)
(to be published). * [46] A. N. Lavrov, Y. Ando, and S. Ono, Europhys.
Lett. **57**, 267 (2002). * [47] E. Sonder, B. C. Chakoumakos, and B. C.
Sales, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6872 (1989). * [48] B. Liang, A. Maljuk, and
C. T. Lin, Physica C **361**, 156 (2001). * [49] H. Luo and H. H. Wen,
Phys. Rev. B **89**, 024506 (2014). * [50] A. Yurgens, D. Winkler, T.
Claeson, S. Ono, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 147005 (2003). *
[51] Y. Ando, G. S. Boebinger, A. Passner, N. L. Wang, C. Geibel, and F.
Steglich, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 2065 (1996). * [52] T. Watanabe, T.
Fujii, and A. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 2113 (1997). * [53] Y.
Yamada, K. Anagawa, T. Shibauchi, T. Fujii, T. Watanabe, A. Matsuda, and
M. Suzuki, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 054533 (2003). * [54] R. Kleiner and P.
Muller, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1327 (1994). * [55] S. O. Katterwe and V.
M. Krasnov, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 020502(R) (2009). * [56] H. Kashiwaya,
T. Matsumoto, H. Shibata, H. Eisaki, Y. Yoshida, H. Kambara, S.
Kawabata, and S. Kashiwaya, Appl. Phys. Express **3**, 043101 (2010). *
[57] J. M. Ziman, _Principles of the Theory of Solids_ (Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, NY, 1999).

* [58] N. Morozov, L. Krusin-Elbaum, T. Shibauchi, L. N. Bulaevskii, M.
P. Maley, Yu. I. Latyshev, and T. Yamashita, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**,
1784 (2000). * [59] S. O. Katterwe, A. Rydh, and V. M. Krasnov, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **101**, 087003 (2008). * [60] S. O. Katterwe, A. Rydh, H.
Motzkau, A. B. Kulakov, and V. M. Krasnov, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024517
(2010). * [61] H. Motzkau, S. O. Katterwe, A. Rydh, and V. M. Krasnov,
Physica C **491**, 51 (2013). * [62] J. Bardeen and M. J. Stephen, Phys.
Rev. **140**, A1197 (1965). * [63] M. J. Naughton, R. C. Yu, P. K.
Davies, J. E. Fischer, R. V. Chamberlin, Z. Z. Wang, T. W. Jing, N. P.
Ong, and P. M. Chaikin, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 9280 (1988). * [64]
Measurements in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) were made over different sections of
the same OP(4.3) crystal, with approximately factor 2 difference in
length, which leads to the corresponding difference in resistances. *
[65] M. Tachiki and S. Takahashi, Solid State Commun. **70**, 291
(1989). * [66] W. K. Kwok, U. Welp, V. M. Vinokur, S. Fleshler, J.
Downey, and G. W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 390 (1991). * [67]
V. M. Krasnov, A. E. Kovalev, V. A. Oboznov, and N. F. Pedersen, Phys.
Rev. B **54**, 15448 (1996). * [68] F. Rullier-Albenque, H. Alloul, and
G. Rikken, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 014522 (2011). * [69] K. S. Tikhonov, G.
Schwiete, and A. M. Finkel’stein, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 174527 (2012). *
[70] J. P. Carbotte, Rev. Mod. Phys. **62**, 1027 (1990). * [71] H. Q.
Yuan, J. Singleton, F. F. Balakirev, S. A. Baily, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo,
and N. L. Wan, Nature (London) **457**, 565 (2009).
