# Nonmonotonic evolution of out-of-plane resistivity with Pr doping

in Y1-_x_Pr_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ single crystals

C. N. Jiang, A. R. Baldwin, G. A. Levin, T. Stein, and C. C. Almasan

Department of Physics, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio 44242

D. A. Gajewski, S. H. Han, and M. B. Maple

Department of Physics and Institute for Pure and Applied Physical
Sciences, University of California,

San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093

Received 3 October 1996

###### Abstract

In-plane (r_(b)) and out-of-plane (r_(c)) resistivities of
Y1-_x_Pr_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ have been determined using the electrical contact
configuration of the dc flux transformer. r_(a)(_x_) varies
nonmonotonically with _x_: r_(c)(_x_) increases at low x, reaches a
maximum at x 0.42, and then decreases for higher values of x. In
contrast, r_(b)(_x_) increases monotonically with x. These results,
along with the coexistence of metallic r_(b) and semiconducting r_(c),
are consistent with the presence of a gap in the energy spectrum of the
CuO chains, leading to tunneling through both valence and conduction
bands of the CuO chains. [S0163-1829(97)52306-X]

Some of the more interesting and striking aspects of the normal-state
resistivity of the high-temperature superconductors are the coexistence
of metallic in-plane resistivity r_(b)(_T_) and semiconducting
out-of-plane resistivity r_(c)(_T_) at low temperatures in a certain
range of doping, and the transformation of both resistivities from
metallic to insulating in the strongly underdoped regime.1 This behavior
is observed in several underdoped cuprates and is typified by oxygen
deficient YBa2Cu3O7,2 where r_(b), r_(c), and the anisotropy
_r__c_/_r__ab_ increase _monotonically_ with decreasing y. In YBa2Cu3O7,
the removal of oxygen from the CuO chains has a twofold effect on r_(c):
one is the reduction of the number of holes on the CuO2 planes through
hole filling and their subsequent localization, the other is the drastic
change of the condition for tunneling between the neighboring bilayers
due to the introduction of oxygen vacancies on the chains. Consequently,
one is unable to separate the effect on r_(c) of hole filling and
localization on the planes from that of the depletion of the chain
layers. It is important to clarify the relationship between the _c_-axis
transport and the transformation of the CuO2 planes from metallic to
insulating (a process intimately related to superconductivity) since one
of the fundamental questions about the _c_-axis transport is its
implications for superconductivity of the layered cuprates.

We address this issue through resistivity measurements of fully
oxygenated Y1-_x_Pr_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ in which T_(c) can be continuously
"tuned" from 92 to 0 K by increasing the Pr concentration. The Y-Pr
sheets, which serve as "internal" charge reservoirs, are located inside
the CuO2 bilayers and, as shown by optical reflectivity measurements,3
do not affect the structure and composition of the blocking layers,
which include the CuO chains. Therefore, the _c_-axis resistivity of
Y1-_x_Pr_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ changes only as a result of the transformations
that take place in the conduction mechanism of the CuO2 planes, while
the structure of the CuO chains remains unaffected.

Our principal finding is that the evolution of r_(c) is profoundly
different in this system than in YBa2Cu3O7. In Y1-_x_Pr_xBa2Cu3O7,
r_(c)(_x_) and the anisotropy r_(c)(_x_)/_r__ab_(_x_) are _nonmonotonic_
functions of _x_: at low to moderate x, r_(c)(_x_) and
r_(c)(_x_)/_r__ab_(_x_) increase, reaching a maximum at x 0.42; for even
higher x values, r_(c)(_x_) and r_(c)(_x_)/_r__ab_(_x_) _decrease_,
while r_(b)(_x_) continues to increase monotonically. In the samples
with low Pr concentration both resistivities are metallic; more heavily
doped samples exhibit metallic r_(b)(_T_) and semiconducting r_(c)(_T_),
while both resistivities of the strongly underdoped crystals (very low
T_(c) or nonsuperconducting) are semiconducting at low temperatures. As
discussed subsequently, the nonmonotonic evolution of r_(c)(_x_) and the
coexistence of metallic r_(b)(_T_) and semiconducting r_(c)(_T_) are
consistent with the _c_-axis charge transport produced by tunneling
between a neighboring bilayer and chain-layer, provided there is a gap
in the energy spectrum of the CuO chains, so that, in heavily doped
Y1-_x_Pr_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ tunneling takes place in the tails of the Fermi
distribution.

Single crystals of Y1-_x_Pr_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ with 0.13 0.55 and 0 T_(c) 0
85 K were grown by a method described elsewhere.4 Typical sizes of the
crystals are 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.04 mm3, with the _c_-axis oriented along the
smallest dimension. Eight electrodes were fabricated on each sample by
bonding 1 mil Au wires to the crystal with Ag paste. The typical contact
resistance of a completed electrode is 1.8 O or less. The distance
between the voltage leads is about 1/3 of the length of the crystal.

We determined the resistivities r_(c)(_T_,_x_) and r_(b)(_T_,_x_) using
the electrical contact configuration of the dc flux transformer [inset
to Fig. 1(a) shows the configuration of the leads]. A 0.1 mA current
biases the top face of the crystal and the voltages on the top (_V_top)
and bottom (_V_bot) faces are recorded as a function of temperature.5-7
The two-dimensional distribution of the electrical potential
_V_(_x_,_z_) inside the crystal is determined by Laplace’s equation
${\rm div}\tilde{j}(x,z) = \rho_{ab}^{- 1}\tilde{\sigma}^{2}Vl\partial x^{2} + \rho_{c}^{- 1}\tilde{\sigma}^{2}Vl\partial z^{2} = 0$,
where j̃(x, z) is the current density.7 A general solution is given by an
infinite series with the coefficients determined from the boundary
conditions. For the voltage drop on the bottom face of the crystal, we
obtained the following _rapidly_ converging series:

$$V_{\rm bot} = \frac{8I(\rho_{c}\rho_{ab})^{1/2}}{\pi b}\sum_{k=0}^{\infty}\frac{( -1)^{k}}{2k + 1}\,\frac{\sin[(2k + 1)\,\pi d/2L]}{\sinh[(2k + 1)\,\xi\pi D/L]}\,,$$

where ξ = (ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab))^(1/2), I is the applied current, b, L, and D
are the width, length, and thickness of the sample, respectively, and d
is the distance between the two voltage contacts.

In contrast, the voltage distribution on the top face is given by a very
_slowly_ converging series. The same type of problem appears in the
Montgomery method.[8, 9] We solved it by separating the series into
slowly and rapidly converging parts. The former is chosen in such a way
that it does not depend on ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) and can be calculated exactly
[the first term on the right-hand side of Eq. (2)], while the rapidly
converging series can be easily evaluated numerically. Then,

$$V_{\rm top} = \frac{8I(\rho_{c}\rho_{ab})^{1/2}}{\pi b}\Bigg{[}\frac{1}{2}\, \ln\,\tan\Bigg{(}\frac{\pi}{4}+\frac{\pi d}{4L}\Bigg{)}$$
(2)
$$+\sum_{k=0}^{\infty}\frac{(-1)^{k}}{2k + 1}\,\sin\,\frac{(2k + 1)\,\pi d}{2L}$$
$$\times \Bigg{\langle}\coth\frac{(2k + 1)\,\xi\pi D}{L}-1\Bigg{\rangle}\Bigg{]}$$

For our Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba_(x)Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples, the parameter
ξπD/L$\geq 1\,(V_{\rm top}/V_{\rm bot}$ ≈ 1). Even for these relatively
small values of anisotropy, it was sufficient to retain only the first
three terms (k = 0,1,2) in Eqs. (1) and (2) to obtain convergence within
0.1

Special care was taken to ensure that our results reflect bulk
properties and are not affected by extrinsic factors such as sample
inhomogeneities or surface quality. Two sets of measurements were
performed for each sample in which the current was injected through
leads 1,4 and 5,8, respectively. The corresponding sets of
$V_{\rm top}$, $V_{\rm bot}$ were compared, and, after correcting for
small differences in the spacing between the contacts, only those
crystals for which both the corresponding sets of $V_{\rm top}$,
$V_{\rm bot}$ were within 10

In-plane and out-of-plane resistivities of five
Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba_(x)Cu₃O_(7 − δ) single crystals are shown in Fig. 1.
The magnitude and temperature dependences of ρ_(ab) [Fig. 1(a)] are very
similar to those obtained by a four-point method on a different set of
Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba_(x)Cu₃O_(7 − δ) single crystals with current leads
mounted on their edges.[11] This fact corroborates the correctness of
our algorithm. Figure 1(a) shows that ρ_(ab)(T,x) is metallic for x≈0.42
[i.e., ρ_(ab)(T)∝τ_(ab)⁻¹∼T+ const] and increases monotonically with
increasing Pr content. The sample with x=0.42 exhibits early signs of
weak localization which indicates that the mobility threshold E_(c) is
close to the Fermi energy of this sample. The samples with x>0.42
display a semiconducting-type behavior of ρ_(ab)(T) at low T. As in all
underdoped cuprates, there is a characteristic change of slope
dρ_(ab)/dT at temperatures $T^{\rm st}$(x) marked by arrows.[12] This
feature is discussed in Ref. 13.

As shown in Fig. 1(b), the evolution of ρ_(c)(x, T) is quite surprising.
With increasing Pr concentration, Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba_(x)Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
exhibits a nonmonotonic variation of p_(c)(x): for low values of x, it
increases, reaching a maximum for x∼0.42, while for even higher Pr
concentration, p_(c)(x, T)_decreases_ even though it remains
semiconducting. This effect can be illustrated even more dramatically by
plotting the anisotropy ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) as a function of x at a given
temperature [inset to Fig. 1(b)]. Notice that the anistropy is strongly
temperature-dependent in the sample with the highest anisotropy
(x=0.42), in contrast to optimally doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Ref. 14) and
strongly underdoped Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba_(x)Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (x=0.53 and 0.55)
samples.

Figures 1(a) and 1(b) also show that both ρ_(ab)(T) and ρ_(c)(T) of the
x=0.13 and 0.22 samples are metallic down to T_(c). The x=0.42 sample
exhibits a coexistence of metallic ρ_(ab)(T) and semiconducting ρ_(c)(T)
at all T>T_(c) . The strongly underdoped samples (x=0.53 and 0.55)
exhibit a minimum in ρ_(ab)(T) and semiconducting ρ_(c)(T). Hence, the
major features of the resistivity of Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba_(x)Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
are the nonmonotonic evolution of ρ_(c)(T) with Pr content, the
transformation of both resistivities from metallic to semiconducting,
and the coexistence of metallic ρ_(ab)(T) and semiconducting ρ_(c)(T)
for a certain range of doping.

In a short paper it is difficult to give due credit to many ingenious
models of the c-axis transport that have been proposed (see Ref. 1).
None, however, have anticipated the nonmonotonic evolution of ρ_(c)(x)
in the underdoped regime. We

Figure 1: (a) In-plane resistivity ρ_(ab)(T) and (b) out-of-plane
resistivity ρ_(c)(T) for Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba_(x)Cu₃O_(7 − δ) single
crystals. The solid lines in (b) are fits to the data with Eq. (3).
Inset to Fig. 1(a): The leads configuration used in our measurements.
Inset to Fig. 1(b): Anisotropy ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) vs Pr concentration x at
different temperatures. The solid lines are guides to the eye.

present here a simple model which attempts to incorporate the main
features we described above. Figure 2 illustrates the basic idea of our
model. The main contribution to the _c_-axis conductivity is assumed to
be due to the incoherent elastic tunneling between the neighboring CuO₂
bilayer and the CuO chain layer. Then, the transformation of ρ_(c)(T)
from metallic to semiconducting and its nonmonotonic evolution can be
understood if we assume that there is a gap Δ in the energy spectrum of
the chains. The magnitude and temperature dependence of ρ_(c)(T) is
determined by the location of the chemical potential with respect to the
valence and conduction bands of the chains as follows: when the chemical
potential lies below the gap, in the valence band, the chains are
metallic and so is ρ_(c)(T); when the Fermi energy enters the gap,
tunneling takes place only in the tails of the Fermi distribution
through both valence and conduction bands of the chains leading to a
semiconducting-type temperature dependence of ρ_(c)(T) characterized by
two activation energies, μ and Δ − μ (the maximum value of ρ_(c) and the
strongest temperature dependence corresponding to μ lying in the midgap
region); when μ is raised above midgap level, the _c_-axis conductivity
increases due to enhanced current through the conduction band, and at
low temperatures ρ_(c)(T) is governed by the smaller of the two
activation energies Δ − μ. We see that the monotonic change in the
position of the chemical potential leads to a nonmonotonic variation of
ρ_(c).

To test the applicability of this phenomenological model to the
Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) system, we fit our experimental data of
all five samples [15] with the following equation for conductivity [16,
17]:

$$\sigma_{c}\!=\!\frac{a\,\tau_{ab}}{e^{\beta\mu}\!+\!1}+\frac{b}{e^{\beta( \Delta-\mu)}\!+\!1}\!\equiv\!\!\sigma_{1}\!+\sigma_{2}\,,$$
(3)

where a and b are constants, β = 1/k_(B)T, σ₁ and σ₂ are the
contributions to σ_(c) from tunneling through the valence and conduction
bands, respectively, and μ is measured from the top of the valence band;
we take the relaxation rate τ_(ab)⁻¹ ∝ τ_(r)⁻¹ + T, where
τ_(r)⁻¹ = const is the elastic scattering rate. The fits to ρ_(c)(T) are
shown in Fig. 1(b), while the values of μ(x) and Δ obtained from the
fitting are shown in Fig. 3. The energy gap Δ = 670 K was kept constant
during the fitting procedure for all five samples. As shown in Fig. 3,
for x = 0.13 and 0.22, the chemical potential is in the valence band
(μ < 0) and, therefore, according to Eq. (3), ρ_(c)(T) is metallic,
i.e., ρ_(c)(T) ∝ ρ_(ab)(T) ∝ τ_(ab)⁻¹. When μ(x) enters the gap
(0< μ < E_(c)), ρ_(c)(T) becomes semiconducting with two activation
energies, μ and Δ − μ, while ρ_(ab)(T) remains metallic. Finally, when μ
is elevated above E_(c), both ρ_(ab)(T) and ρ_(c)(T) become
semiconducting at low temperatures, but with different activation
energies: μ − E_(c) and Δ − μ, respectively.

The solid line in Fig. 3 is a linear fit to μ(x) data which gives a
slope d μ/dx = 1800 K. An analysis of the in-plane resistivity of the
Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) crystals from a entirely different
prospective yields a very close value of d μ/dx = 1760 K [13]. According
to Fig. 3, for x > 0.6, the chemical potential enters the conduction
band making chains "metallic" again, at least in the sense that there is
a finite density of states at the Fermi level. This conclusion is
corroborated by the evidence of "metallic" chains and insulating planes
in aligned films of PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)[18].

Our model indicates a monotonic increase of the chemical potential with
Pr content at an approximately constant rate. This can be easily
understood in terms of a hole depletion and subsequent localization
process due to a valence of Pr greater than 3. In spite of many
experiments, there is no consensus on the nature of the suppression of
superconductivity by Pr doping in the Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
mainly because the chemical valence of Pr remains uncertain. While
susceptibility, Hall effect, and neutron-diffraction crystallographic
studies indicate that Pr valence is greater than 3, high-energy
spectroscopy and band structure calculations indicate an oxidation state
Pr^(3+, 19) Recent optical reflectivity results [3] and calculations by
Fehrenbacher and Rice [20] support the hole depletion mechanism.
Reference 20 shows that the total probability of the 4f¹Pr configuration
is roughly 0.15-0.2 which may explain the spectroscopic results
revealing a

Figure 3: Chemical potential μ vs Pr concentration x. The solid line is
a linear fit. Also shown are a schematic representation of the valence
and conduction bands of the chains and the approximate position of the
mobility edge E_(c).

Figure 2: (a) Schematic representation of the density of states DOS of
neighboring bilayers (1) and (1⁷) and the chain layer (2). The latter
has a gap Δ between the valence and conduction bands. The shown location
of μ results in a semiconducting ρ_(c)(T) and metallic ρ_(ab)(T). The
arrows indicate the two channels of elastic tunneling in the tails of
the Fermi distribution.

valence ⇌Pr³⁺. The effect of Pr on T_(c) suppression and conduction in
Bi₂Sr₂(Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x))Cu₂O_(8 + δ), where hole filling by Pr clearly
takes place, is similar to that in Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)[21].
This also points toward the hole filling and subsequent localization
scenario.

The notion that tunneling in the c direction takes place in the tails of
the Fermi distribution is similar to that proposed by Abrikosov.[16]
However, unlike Ref. [16], we believe that in the fully oxygenated
RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (R = rare earth) compounds, this is due to the gap in
the density of states (DOS) of the chain layers and not the presence of
resonant tunneling centers. In other cuprates that do not possess
metallic chains in the blocking layers and are much more anisotropic,
the resonant centers may play a role in the c-direction transport.

We thank A. A. Abrikosov and B. W. Veal for making available to us their
work on c-axis resistivity prior to publication, and K. F. Quader for
useful discussions. The work at KSU was supported by the Research
Council of Kent State University and the National Science Foundation
under Grant No. DMR-9601839, and at USCD by the U.S. Department of
Energy under Grant No. DE-FG03-86ER-45230.

## References

* [1] S. L. Cooper and K. E. Gray, in _Physical Properties of High
Temperature Superconductors IV_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1994), p. 61. * [2] K. Takenaka, K. Mizuhashi, H.
Takagi, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 6534 (1994); B. W. Veal
(unpublished). * [3] K. Takenaka, Y. Imanaka, K. Tamasaku, T. Ito, and
S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5833 (1992). * [4] L. M. Paulius, B. W.
Lee, M. B. Maple, and P. K. Tsai, Physica C **230**, 255 (1994). * [5]
I. Giaever, Phys. Rev. Lett. **15**, 825 (1965). * [6] H. Safar, E.
Rodriguez , F. de la Cruz, P. L. Gammel, L. F. Schneemeyer, and D. J.
Bishop, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 238 (1992). * [7] R. Busch, G. Ries, H.
Werthner, G. Kreiselmeyer, and G. Saemann-Ischcenko, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**69**, 522 (1992). * [8] H. C. Montgomery, J. Appl. Phys. **42**,
2971(1971). * [9] B. F. Logan, S. O. Rice, and R. F. Wick, J. Appl.
Phys. **42**, 2975 (1971). * [10] In Ref. [7], the expressions for
$V_{\rm top}$ and $V_{\rm bot}$ were derived by truncating the slowly
converging series, keeping only the k = 0 term. Therefore, their
expressions of $V_{\rm top}$ and $V_{\rm bot}$ do not coincide with Eqs.
(1) and (2) even in the limit of large anisotropy ξπD/L≫1. Moreover, we
find that for systems with low or moderate anisotropy, such as
Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) the method of Ref. [7] seriously
underestimates ρ_(c) and distorts its temperature dependence. * [11] M.
B. Maple, C. C. Almasan, C. L. Seaman, S. H. Han, K. Yoshiara, M.
Buchgeister, L. M. Paulius, B. W. Lee, D. A. Gajewski, R. F. Jamin, C.
R. Fincher, Jr., Graciela B. Blanchet, and R. P. Guertin, J. Supercond.
**7**, 97 (1994). * [12] B. Batlogg _et al._, Physica C **235-240**, 130
(1994), and references therein. * [13] G. A. Levin and K. F. Quader
(unpublished). * [14] T. A. Friedmann, M. W. Rabin, J. Giapintzakis, J.
P. Rice, and D. M. Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6217 (1990). * [15]
The σ_(c)(T) of the nonsuperconducting sample (x = 0.55) was fitted with
Eq. (3) for T≈10 K; below 10 K, both ρ_(c)(T) and ρ_(ab)(T) exhibit
variable range hopping. * [16] A. A. Abrikosov, Phys. Rev. B **52**,
7026 (1995); Physica C **258**, 53 (1996). * [17] N. Kumar and A. M.
Jayannavar, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 5001 (1992). * [18] M. Lee, Y. Suzuki,
and T. H. Geballe, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 15 619 (1995). * [19] For a
review, see, e.g., H. B. Radousky, J. Mater. Res. **7**, 1917 (1992). *
[20] R. Fehrenbacher and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3471
(1993), and references therein. * [21] B. Beschoten, S. Sadewasser, G.
Guntherodt, and C. Quitmann, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 1837 (1996).
