# Heavy-electron behavior in single-crystal YbNi₂B₂C

A. Yatskar, N. K. Budraa, and W. P. Beyermann

University of California, Riverside, California 92521

P. C. Canfield and S. L. Bud’ko

Ames Laboratory and Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011

6 February 1996

###### Abstract

We have measured the magnetic susceptibility, specific heat, and
electrical resistivity on single crystals of the intermetallic
borocarbide YbNi₂B₂C. An enhanced linear contribution is observed in the
specific heat with a Sommerfeld coefficient of 530 mJ/mol K², indicative
of a heavy-electron system with a Kondo temperature ∼10 K. The magnetic
susceptibility, which is anisotropic and Curie-Weiss-like at high
temperatures, is also consistent with our interpretation of a strongly
correlated ground state at low temperatures and crystal-electric-field
excitations at higher temperatures. At T=1.8 K, the Wilson ratio is
determined to be 0.85 using the high-temperature effective moment. The
resistivity shows a quadratic temperature dependence below 1.5 K with a
T² coefficient of 1.2 μd cm K⁻². Unlike the other members of the series
_R_Ni₂B₂C (_R_ = Y, Gd-Lu), YbNi₂B₂C does not order above our lowest
measurement temperature of 0.34 K. The suppression of superconductivity
in YbNi₂B₂C is consistent with a significantly enhanced hybridization
between the conduction electrons and the 4f states.
[S0163-1829(96)51130-6]

An interesting interplay between superconductivity and local-moment
magnetism was recently discovered in the series of intermetallic
borocarbides _R_Ni₂B₂C (_R_ = Y, Gd-Tm, and Lu).[1, 2, 3] For R =Lu and
Y, the compounds are moderately high-temperature superconductors with
T_(c)  16.0 and 15.0 K, respectively. As one moves across the lanthanide
series from Tm to Ho, T_(c) monotonically decreases, and below the
superconducting transition, the compounds also antiferromagnetically
order.[2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8] The magnetic transition temperature increases
in going from Tm to Gd,[3, 9] and for Dy,[3] the T_(N) > T_(c) . Both
TbNi₂B₂C (Ref. [10]) and GdNi₂B₂C (Ref. [9]) magnetically order with no
indications of superconductivity at low temperatures. The variations of
T_(c) and T_(N) described above for the whole series are qualitatively
consistent with de Gennes scaling.[3, 9] While the coexistence of
magnetism and superconductivity has been studied in other series such as
_R_Mo₆(S,Se)₈ and _R_Rh₄B₄,[11] the lanthanide-nickel-borocarbide series
has attracted a great deal of interest because the transition
temperatures are relatively high and the crystal structure has
alternating layers of Ni₂B₂ and R -C. The crystalline-electric-field
(CEF) splitting of the lanthanide orbitals leads to large anisotropies
in the magnetic and superconducting properties.[3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
12] In this paper, we report the discovery of a heavy Fermi-liquid
ground state at low temperatures in the Yb member of this series. Only a
few classes of materials offer such a diverse range of phenomena as a
result of changing the lanthanide element. The _R_Ni₂B₂C series provides
the scientific community with a unique opportunity for studying the
interaction between magnet, superconducting, and now enhanced
correlated-electron ground states.

Single crystals of YbNi₂B₂C were grown using a modification of the Ames
Lab Ni₂B flux growth technique.[6, 13] (Polycrystalline YbNi₂B₂C was
synthesized by arc melting together powders of the constituent elements.
Excess Yb was used to compensate loss due to the high vapor pressure of
Yb at elevated temperatures.) The single crystals grown by this
technique are flat plates, which can be as large as 7×7×0.2 mm³, with
the crystallographic c axis perpendicular to the plate surface. Powder
x-ray-diffraction spectra taken on a ground single crystal gave a =
3.575 A and c = 10.606 A. These values are consistent with the lattice
parameters reported by Seigrist _et al._,[14] and indicate that at room
temperature Yb is close to trivalent.

A Quantum Design superconducting quantum interference device
magnetometer was used to determine the static magnetization of a crystal
with approximate dimensions of 2×2×0.2 mm³. The anisotropic
susceptibilities were measured from 1.8 to 350 K with an applied field
of 1 kOe aligned either perpendicular or parallel to the c axis. The
specific heat was obtained with a thermal relaxation technique where a
single crystal weighing ∼16 mg was attached to a thermometer/heater
sapphire platform with a small amount of Apiezon grease.[15] In order to
cover the temperature range from 0.34 to 40 K, two calorimeters with
different platform thermometers were used. The low-temperature
calorimeter, which was cooled with an evaporative helium-3 system, used
a germanium thermometer from TRI Research. For temperatures above 2 K,
the platform thermometer was a Cernox from LakeShore. The absolute
uncertainty in the specific heat is approximately ±1

In Fig. 1(a), the magnetic susceptibilities, χ_(⊥)= _M_/_H__(⊥), χ₁=
_M_/_H__(∥), and $\chi_{\rm aw}$= _2_χ_(⊥)(_T_)/3_ + _χ_(∥)(_T_)/3 are
displayed as a function of temperature from 1.8 to 350 K for H⊥e,
**H**ile, and the crystallographic average. Notice that the
susceptibility is larger when the applied field is aligned parallel to
the c axis. As anticipated, this is the same anisotropy found in
TmNi₂B₂C.[5] When the temperature dependence of the inverse
susceptibility is plotted [Fig. 1(b)], Curie-Weiss behavior is observed
above ∼150 K, and from the high-temperature slopes, the effective
moments are 4.85 μ_(B), 4.67 μ_(B), and 4.72 μ_(B) for H⊥c, H∥c, and the
powder average, respectively. These values are slightly larger than 4.54
μ_(B) calculated for the Hund’s rule ground state of Yb³⁺. The Weiss
temperatures are θ_(⊥) =  − 191.0 K, θ_(∥) =  − 63.6 K, and
$\theta_{\rm av}\!=\!-129.6$ K, indicating antiferromagnetic
correlations are important in this compound.

As the temperature is reduced below ∼100 K, the data deviate from the
high-temperature Curie-Weiss behavior. The temperature dependence of the
data shown in Fig. 1(b) is significantly different from that found for
the other members of the RNi₂B₂C series. For R = Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm,
$\chi_{\rm av}(T)$ follows a Curie-Weiss law to a temperature comparable
to the antiferromagnetic ordering temperature, and the magnitude of the
Weiss temperature is close to T_(N).[3, 5, 6, 7] Deviations from
Curie-Weiss behavior and the large Weiss temperature for $\chi_{\rm av}$
indicate that the Yb 4f levels may be significantly hybridizing with the
conduction electrons. If this is true, an approximation of the Kondo
temperature is given by θ!10≤T_(K)!∈!θ.[6] Anomalies associated with
superconducting or magnetic order were not observed throughout the
measured temperature range.

To further explore the possibility that YbNi₂B₂C is a heavy fermion, the
specific heat C was measured, and the data, which are normalized per
mole Yb, are plotted in Fig. 2(a) as a function of temperature. The
rapid increase above ∼20 K is due in part to phonons as illustrated by
our data on LuNi₂B₂C in the same figure. By plotting _C_/_T_ versus T²
in Fig. 2(b), the deviation from a straight line shows that the
low-temperature T³ approximation of the Debye model for acoustic phonons
inadequately describes the higher-temperature specific heat. Our data
extend to high enough temperatures where departures from the T³ behavior
along with Einstein contributions for the optical phonons may become
noticeable. In addition, thermal excitations of crystal-electric-field
levels will contribute to the specific heat at higher temperatures.

A shoulder is observed in the specific heat below 10 K that we believe
is a consequence of magnetic spin fluctuations. After plotting the
low-temperature data in Fig. 3, a large low-temperature linear
contribution to the specific heat is apparent. A fit to the data below
∼1 K yields a Sommerfeld coefficient γ of 530 mJ/mol K². The
low-temperature saturation of γ at 530 mJ/mol K² is evident when the
data are plotted as _C_/_T_ versus T in the inset of Fig. 3. This
enhanced electronic specific heat is large enough to classify YbNi₂B₂C
as a new Yb heavy-fermion compound (a system with γ  >400 mJ/mol K²),
and using the single impurity relation, T_(K) = w_(N)π²R/6γ where
w_(N)=0.4107 is the Wilson number

Figure 2: (a) The specific heat C versus temperature and (b) _C_/_T_ as
a function of T² for YbNi₂B₂C (solid circles). The crosses are the data
for LuNi₂B₂C with a superconducting transition at 16 K. The solid line
in (b) is the extrapolation below the superconducting transition (see
text for details) that was used for the phonon subtraction. The specific
heat is normalized per mole lanthanide.

Figure 1: (a) Anisotropic magnetic susceptibility χ. normalized per mole
Yb, versus temperature for YbNi₂B₂C. The measurement was performed with
a field of 1 kOe applied parallel (circles) and perpendicular (crosses)
to the crystallographic c axis. The solid line is the polycrystalline
average. (b) Inverse magnetic susceptibility χ⁻¹ as a function of
temperature for the data in (a).

and R is the gas constant,[17] the Kondo temperature is estimated to be
11 K. The magnetic and thermal excitations are comparably enhanced, and
with χ and γ determined at T = 1.8 K, the Wilson ratio,
$\chi\pi^{2}k_{f}^{2}/\gamma\mu_{\rm eff}^{2}$, is 0.85 using the
high-temperature effective moment.[17] Below 100 K, $\mu_{\rm eff}$
decreases with decreasing temperature, and this yields a Wilson ratio
that exceeds 1. It should be noted that the sample manifests no feature
that can be associated with a superconducting phase transition above
0.34 K, our lowest measured temperature.

To ascertain the nonmagnetic contribution of the specific heat, the
isostructural compound LuNi₂B₂C was measured, and the data are presented
in Fig. 2. At high temperatures, a deviation from the Debye T³ law is
evident. Below the superconducting transition at 16 K, the specific heat
of LuNi₂B₂C is approximated by γT⁺βT³ [solid line in Fig. 2(b)] with the
coefficients determined from a fit to the data between the transition
and 20 K. A reasonably good fit was found with γ=11±5 mJ/mol K² and
β=0.35±0.01 mJ/mol K⁴ for 16 K<T<20 K. Our value for β is the same as
that found for single crystals of HoNi₂B₂C (Ref. 7) and TmNi₂B₂C,[18]
and it is ∼30

The electrical resistivity in the a-b plane is displayed as a function
of temperature in Fig. 5. The resistivity monotonically decreases with
decreasing temperature in a manner similar to UPt₃,[21] and no
indication of a coherence peak is observed. Using the resistivities at
300 and 0.57 K, the residual resistivity ratio is ∼8.6, a value which
supports the high quality of our sample. Significant deviations from the
Bloch-Gruneisen law may be associated with crystal-electric-field
levels. In the inset of Fig. 5, the low-temperature resis

Figure 4: The magnetic contribution of the specific heat versus
temperature for YbNi₂B₂C. The plot was obtained by subtracting the
specific heat measured for LuNi₂B₂C from the data in Fig. 2(a) (see
text).

Figure 5: The temperature-dependent resistivity in the a-b plane for
YbNi₂B₂C. The inset shows the low temperature data plotted as a function
of T². Note that the resistivity axis is offset from zero.

Figure 3: Specific heat, normalized per mole Yb, at low temperatures for
YbNi₂B₂C. In the inset, the data are plotted as C/T versus temperature.

tivity is plotted versus T². A quadratic temperature dependence is
apparent up to ∼1.5 K, consistent with the coherent effects of an
enhanced Fermi-liquid ground state. The coefficient of the quadratic
term A = 1.2 μΩ cm K⁻², which gives 4.3 μΩ cm mol² K² J⁻² for the ratio
of A/γ². This is close to the value of 3.9 μΩ cm mol² K² J⁻² found for
UPt₃ along the hexagonal axis, which as mentioned above has a similar
temperature-dependent resistivity [22]. This indicates that the
strong-electron correlations renormalize both the thermodynamic and
transport properties.

In summary, we report the discovery of a Yb heavy-fermion compound with
γ=530 mJ/mol K². Correlated-electron behavior is also exhibited in the
magnetic susceptibility and electrical resistivity. No long-range order
is observed down to 0.34 K, and the temperature dependences of these
properties are prototypical of a correlated-electron system where the
spin-fluctuation temperature is well separated from the other energy
scales that characterize the CEF and vibrational excitations. Only a
couple Yb heavy-fermion compounds have been discovered [23], and unlike
compounds such as YbBiPt [24], the largely separated energy scales
(T_(N), T_(c)<0.34 K≪T_(K)≪$T_{\rm{ACEF}}$) in YbNi₂B₂C makes this ideal
system for studying correlated-electron behavior and comparing
experimental results with theoretical predictions. What is truly unique
about this Yb heavy-fermion material is that it is a member of the
RNi₂B₂C series. This class of materials has attracted much interested
recently because of the coexistence of relatively high-temperature
superconductivity and long-range magnetism in the other heavy lanthanide
members. The absence of superconductivity above 0.34 K in YbNi₂B₂C
deviates greatly from the Abrikosov-Gorkov prediction with de Gennes
scaling for the pair-breaking strength [3] (i.e., the adjacent compounds
TmNi₂B₂C and LuNi₂B₂C superconductor at 10.8 and 16.3 K, respectively).
This greatly enhanced pair breaking is consistent with the strong
electron hybridization in this compound. Based on the de Gennes scaling
of T_(N) for the trivalent members of this series [3, 9], YbNi₂B₂C
should order magnetically at approximately 0.4 K, which is much lower
than the Kondo temperature of ∼10 K. Clearly, further measurements on
YbNi₂B₂C are needed to see if any phase transition exists below our
minimum obtainable temperature of 0.34 K. Possibilities include an
ordering of partially screened moments removing a small part of the
total magnetic entropy, heavy-fermion superconductivity, or a density
wave associated with the **k**=0.55 **a*** nesting seen in RNi₂B₂C with
R=Lu, Er, Ho, Tb, and Gd [25, 26, 27, 28]. Substitutional studies
between YbNi₂B₂C, which has a heavy-fermion ground state with T_(K)∼10
K, and LuNi₂B₂C, which superconducts at 16 K, will allow us to study the
transition from pair weakening when strongly hybridized moments are
present to pair breaking caused by long-lived moments. Such studies can
be compared to the extensive work on Th:U and La:Ce alloys and
pseudobinary compounds [30].

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful to J. Wheelock for his assistance with arc melting the
initial ingot, and to A. H. M. Z. Islam for performing the powder
x-ray-diffraction measurements. We also want to acknowledge R. J. Cava
and J. D. Thompson for helpful discussions. Work at Ames Laboratory was
performed under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy.

## References

* [1] R. Nagarajan _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 274 (1994). * [2]
R. J. Cava _et al._, Nature **376**, 252 (1994). * [3] B. K. Cho, P. C.
Canfield, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3844 (1995). * [4] H.
Eisaki _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 647 (1994). * [5] B. K. Cho _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3676 (1995). * [6] B. K. Cho _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **52**, 3684 (1995). * [7] P. C. Canfield _et al._, Physica C
**230**, 397 (1994); P. C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, D. C. Johnson, and M. F.
Hundley, in _Neutron Scattering in Materials Science II_, edited by D.
A. Neumann, T. P. Russell, and B. J. Wuensch, MRS Symposium Proceedings
No. 376 (Materials Research Society, Pittsburgh, 1995), p. 565. * [8] K.
D. D. Rathnayaka, D. G. Naugle, B. K. Cho, and P. C. Canfield, Phys.
Rev. B **53**, 5688 (1996). * [9] P. C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, and K. W.
Dennis, Physica B **215**, 337 (1995). * [10] B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield,
and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8499 (1996). * [11]_O_.
Fischer, in _Ferromagnetic Materials_, edited by K. H. J. Buschow and E.
P. Wohlfarth (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1990), Vol. 5, p. 465. * [12] B.
K. Cho, B. N. Harmon, D. C. Johnston, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**53**, 2217 (1996). * [13] M. Xu _et al._, Physica C **227**, 321
(1994). * [14] T. Siegrist _et al._, Nature **376**, 254 (1994). * [15]
R. Bachman _et al._, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **43**, 205 (1972). * [16] M. D.
Daybell, in _Magnetism_, edited by H. Suhl (Academic, New York, 1973),
Vol. 5, p. 129. * [17] A. C. Hewson, _The Kondo Problem to Heavy
Fermions_ (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England, 1993). * [18]
R. Movshovich _et al._, Physica C **227**, 381 (1994). * [19] S. A.
Carter _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4216 (1994). * [20] V. T. Rajan,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **51**, 308 (1983). * [21] G. R. Stewart _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **52**, 679 (1984). * [22] A. de Visser, A. Menovsky,
and J. J. M. Franse, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **63&64**, 365 (1987); K.
Kadowaki and S. B. Woods, Solid State Commun. **58**, 507 (1986). * [23]
Z. Fisk and M. B. Maple, J. Alloys Compd. **183**, 303 (1992). * [24] Z.
Fisk _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3310 (1991); P. C. Canfield,
Physica B **197**, 101 (1994). * [25] P. Dervenagas _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **52**, 9839 (1995). * [26] J. Zerestky _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **51**,
678 (1995). * [27] A. I. Goldman _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 9668
(1994); C. Stassis, A. I. Goldman, P. Dervenagas, J. Zarestky, P. C.
Canfield, B. K. Cho, D. C. Johnston, and B. Sternlieb, in _Neutron
Scattering in Materials Science II_ (Ref. 7), p. 560. * [28] P.
Dervenagas, J. Zarestky, C. Stassis, A. I. Goldman, P. C. Canfield, and
B. K. Cho, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8506 (1996). * [29] C. Detlefs, A. I.
Goldman, C. Stassis, P. C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, J. P. Hill, and D.
Gibbs, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 6355 (1996). * [30] M. B. Maple, Appl. Phys.
Lett. **9**, 179 (1976); L. S. Borkowski and P. J. Hirschfeld, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **96**, 185 (1994).
