# Tuning the charge density wave and superconductivity in Cu_(x)TaS₂

K. E. Wagner,¹ E. Morosan,² Y. S. Hor,¹ J. Tao,³ Y. Zhu,³ T. Sanders,²
T. M. McQueen,¹ H. W. Zandbergen,⁴ A. J. Williams,¹ D. V. West,¹ and R.
J. Cava¹

¹Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, USA

²Department of Physics, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77255, USA

³Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science, Brookhaven National
Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, USA

⁴National Centre for HREM, Department of Nanoscience, Delft Institute of
Technology, 2628 CJ Delft, The Netherlands

###### Abstract

We report the characterization of layered 2_H_-type Cu_(x)TaS₂ for 0 <=
x < 0.12. The charge density wave (CDW), at 70 K for TaS₂, is
destabilized with Cu doping. The sub-1 K superconducting transition in
undoped 2_H_-TaS₂ jumps quickly to 2.5 K at low x, increases to 4.5 K at
the optimal composition Cu_(0.04)TaS₂, and then decreases at higher x.
The electronic contribution to the specific heat, first increasing and
then decreasing as a function of Cu content, is 12 mJ mol-1 K⁻² at
Cu_(0.04)TaS₂. Electron-diffraction studies show that the CDW remains
present at the optimal superconducting composition but with both a
changed q vector and decreased coherence length. We present an
electronic phase diagram for the system.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.78.104520 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **78**, 104520 (2008)

## I Introduction

The competition between charge density wave (CDW) and superconducting
states at low temperatures in layered transition-metal dichalcogenides
has been of interest for decades. A large body of experimental and
theoretical literature exists on the topic, which continues to challenge
our detailed understanding of the two phenomena in this class of
materials (see, e.g., Refs. [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
13]). Here we report the results of chemically tuning the
CDW/superconductivity competition in tantalum disulfide, TaS₂, a classic
layered dichalcogenide. TaS₂ has several polytypes that differ in both
the local coordination of the TaS₆ polyhedron–either octahedral or
trigonal prismatic–and the number of TaS₂ layers in an elementary
cell.[14] The 1T form, with a single layer of TaS₆ octahedra sharing
edges, is a golden semiconductor that has been made superconducting near
4.5 K by doping with Li.[15] The 2H form, the subject of this study, is
based on edge-sharing TaS₆ trigonal prisms and is a dark gray
low-temperature superconductor. The 4H, 3R, and 6R polytypes are also
known.[14]

Undoped 2_H_-TaS₂ is reported to have an in-plane CDW, q = (0.338, 0,
0), with a transition temperature to the CDW state of 70 K.[16, 17] It
is also superconducting, with a _T__(c) near 0.8 K.[18, 19] While there
are no previous reports of the effects of Cu doping on the
superconductivity of TaS₂, there are reports that doping with other
elements yields a higher-temperature superconductor. Intercalation of Na
into 2_H_-TaS₂ to form Na_(x)TaS₂ (0 < x < 0.10), for example, shows an
increase in _T__(c) to 4.4 K.[20] Further, the resistive and
spectroscopic signatures of the CDW weaken on Na doping.[20, 21]
Fe_(x)TaS₂ was found to have a _T__(c) of approximately 3.5 K when x =
0.05, with _T__(c) fully suppressed for x > 0.10.[22] There are also
early reports of superconductivity in the range of 2-5 K for 2_H_-TaS₂
doped with many organic molecules.[23, 24] In all these cases, the
dopants are intercalated into the van der Waals layer between the TaS₂
planes.

None of the previous studies report a system for which TaS₂ has been
tuned through chemical doping in small increments to follow the
competition between the CDW and superconducting states. Here we report
that this can be accomplished in simple equilibrium syntheses through
doping with Cu. Copper is chosen because it was observed to behave as an
_n_-type dopant in the chemically similar Cu_(x)TiSe₂ system, where it
is monovalent and nonmagnetic (i.e., 3d10, S = 0).[25] We find that the
superconducting transition temperature in Cu_(x)TaS₂ first increases and
then decreases with Cu doping, tracing out a classical dome in _T__(c)
vs x, though the details of how this happens are unexpected. The CDW
state is concurrently destabilized, though it remains present at a
somewhat different wave vector and shorter coherence length at the
optimal superconducting composition.

## II Experiment

Stoichiometric amounts of elemental Cu (cleaned in dilute HCl), Ta, and
S powder were mixed to yield 1 g samples of Cu_(x)TaS₂ for 0 <= x <
0.14. The powder mixtures were sealed in evacuated silica tubes. The
initial heating cycle began with 550 degC overnight. Samples were air
quenched to room temperature. Powders were then ground, pressed into
pellets, and resealed in evacuated silica tubes. The tubes were heated
at 650 degC (two nights), 750 degC (two nights), and then again at 650
degC (two nights) and air quenched to room temperature. A third
annealing was then performed; all samples for x > 0.03 were annealed for
one week at 650 degC, producing single phase 2_H_-TaS₂ materials, but
samples for x < 0.03 were annealed at 600 degC to avoid the formation of
the 3R polytype.

The identity and phase purity of the samples was determined by x-ray
powder diffraction. Room-temperature data were recorded with a Bruker D8
diffractometer using Cu _Kα_ radiation and a graphite diffracted beam
monochromator. The superconductivity of the Cu_(x)TaS₂ samples was
characterized through temperature dependent dc magnetization
measurements in a Quantum Design physical property measurement system
(PPMS), which was also used to perform temperature dependent resistivity
measurements using a standard four-point probe technique. Specific-heat
measurements were also performed in the PPMS by using the thermal
relaxation method. The Seebeck coefficient was measured using a homemade
alteration of an MMR technologies SB100 Seebeck measurement system.

Electron-diffraction (ED) studies were performed on lightly ground
samples mounted on copper grids coated with holey carbon film. ED
experiments were carried out using the JEOL 3000F transmission electron
microscope (TEM) equipped with a Gatan liquid-helium cooling stage that
enables _in situ_ TEM observations with the sample temperature from 11
to 400 K. ED patterns were recorded on 16 bit Fuji imaging plates for
digital analysis. Peak positions and widths on the ED patterns were
quantified using standard curve-fitting methods.

## III Results

The observed powder x-ray diffraction patterns for the Cu_(x)TaS₂
samples were fit to the 2H structure type. The crystallographic cell
parameters are shown in Fig. 1. As Cu doping increases, the c-axis
parameter increases systematically, as is the case for Cu_(x)TiSe₂,[25]
indicating that the Cu is intercalated between the TaS₂ layers. Although
impurity phases are not visible in any of the diffraction patterns up to
x =0.14, the fact that the growth of the c-axis stops near x =0.12
indicates that this is the solubility limit for copper in the phase.

The temperature dependent resistivities of polycrystalline pellets of
Cu_(x)TaS₂ for the range of compositions synthesized are shown in Fig.
2. All samples are metallic from 300 to 2 K and show a superconducting
transition at low temperatures. The resistivity for undoped TaS₂ is also
metallic over the whole temperature range, as has been reported
previously (see, e.g., Ref. [21]). All samples show poor metallic
behavior, with room-temperature resistivities in the range of 1−4 mW cm
and residual resistivity ratios near 2. There is no systematic trend in
the absolute magnitudes of the measured resistivities, which we
attribute to the effects of grain boundaries and differing preferred
orientations in the polycrystalline pellets. The samples show the
presence of a superconducting transition in the resistivity at
temperatures below 5 K; the inset of Fig. 2 shows the resistive
transitions for x=0.01, 0.04, and 0.08, indicating the increase and then
decrease in T_(c) with Cu doping.

The magnitudes of the low-field dc magnetizations (Fig. 3) indicate the
presence of bulk superconductivity in the phase pure samples. The
observed transition temperatures are a systematic function of x: the
T_(c) first increases to around 4.7 K for x=0.04 and then decreases
until it is below 2 K for the 12

The low-temperature specific-heat characterization of the Cu_(x)TaS₂
system is shown in Fig. 4. The data show clear peaks at the
superconducting transitions for different compositions, characteristic
of bulk superconductivity. The T_(c)’s observed in these measurements
are consistent with those observed in the susceptibility measurements of
Fig. 3 and are summarized in the upper inset. Further, the specific
heats at temperatures between T_(c) and 10 K are well described as a sum
of a T³ phonon contribution and the T-linear electronic contribution,
such that C/T= γ+ βT². The β values are all

Figure 3: (Color online) Characterization of the superconducting
transitions through measurement of the temperature dependent dc
magnetizations in Cu_(x)TaS₂.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependent resistivity on
polycrystalline pellets of Cu_(x)TaS₂. Inset: detail of superconducting
transitions in Cu_(x)TaS₂ for x=0.01, 0.04, and 0.08.

Figure 1: (Color online) Variation of the crystallographic cell
parameters with copper content in 2_H_-Cu_(x)TaS₂. Standard deviations
on the cell parameters are smaller than the points.

very similar in the system, near 0.4 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻⁴, suggesting a Debye
temperature of 165 K. The electronic contribution to the specific heat
(lower inset, Fig. 4) first increases rapidly on doping to a maximum of
approximately 14 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² at x=0.03 and then decreases on further
doping to around 8 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² by the end of the chemical solid
solution at 12

The characterization of the superconducting transition by
field-dependent specific heat and magnetization measurements for the
optimal superconducting composition, Cu_(0.04)TaS₂, is shown in Fig. 5.
The specific-heat data plotted as C_(p)/T vs T² in Fig. 5 show the
suppression of the transition in field and indicate that H_(c2)(0) is
greater than 3 T. The inset shows the electronic specific heat
$C_{\rm el}$ at the superconducting transition with the phonon
contribution subtracted. A BCS entropy-conserving construction (solid
lines, inset of Fig. 5) is used to determine the jump in the electronic
specific heat at T_(c). The fit shows that the sample is quite
homogeneous, with a bulk T_(c) of 4.2 K. Further it shows that the
specific heat in the region of the superconducting transition is
consistent with the form expected for a single gap s-wave BCS
superconductor, and that $\Delta C_{\rm el}/\gamma T_{c}$=1.65, close to
the ideal BCS ratio of 1.43.

The M(H) data, shown in Fig. 6(a), not only confirm the suppression of
T_(c) with applied magnetic field but also allow us to estimate the
upper and lower critical-field values H_(c2) and H_(c1) as a function of
temperature. The H_(c2) values, where the sample enters the normal state
at each temperature, are estimated as marked by large triangles. At low
fields [inset, Fig. 6(a)], the M(H) isotherms are linear in H, as
expected for a BCS type II superconductor; we estimate the H_(c1)
values, marked by vertical arrows, from the points where these curves
deviate from linearity. Figure 6(b) represents the H-T phase diagram for
the optimal superconducting composition Cu_(0.04)TaS₂, with the full and
open symbols representing values determined from the M(H) and the
C_(p)(T) data, respectively. The Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WWH)
equation [26] can be employed to determine H_(c2)(0) from the H-T data
close to T_(c), i.e., H_(c2)(0) = −0.69T_(c) (dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c)),
yielding an upper critical-field value H_(c2)(0) = 4.2 T.

The CDW transition in 2H-TaS₂ has been observed previously in single
crystals through resistivity measurements [21, 27, 28] and though it is
observable through subtle changes in susceptibility and resistivity in
our undoped polycrystalline 2H-TaS₂ sample, we found that for the
Cu_(x)TaS₂ system even 1

We confirmed the presence of the CDW in the optimal superconducting
compound Cu_(0.04)TaS₂ and the CDW transition temperature estimated from
the Seebeck coefficient measurements by ED studies. The ED patterns in
the (hk0) plane for Cu_(0.04)TaS₂, taken at different temperatures, are
shown in Figs. 8(a)-8(d). The patterns show, e.g., at 293 K, the strong
diffraction peaks from the hexagonal host struc

Figure 4: (Color online) Characterization of the superconducting
transitions and electronic states in Cu_(x)TaS₂ for different x through
measurement of the temperature-dependent specific heat. Lower inset:
composition dependence of the electronic contribution to the specific
heat in Cu_(x)TaS₂. Upper inset: T_(c) values measured by specific heat
and magnetization for Cu_(x)TaS₂, with the x=0 value taken from the
literature (Refs. [18] and [19]).

Figure 5: (Color online) Detailed characterization of the
superconducting transition in the optimal superconducting composition
Cu_(0.04)TaS₂ through specific heat. Inset: the H=0 electronic
contribution to the specific heat at the temperatures near the
superconducting transition. The solid line shows the entropy conserving
construction, with a fit to a T² polynomial at low temperatures.

ture. Some evidence of diffuse scattering between these peaks is present
at high temperatures, likely related to the presence of a soft phonon,
but between 66 and 55 K weak and broad, but clear, peaks appear from the
condensation of the CDW between those two temperatures.

For Cu_(x)TiSe₂ the q vector of the commensurate CDW, arising from a
special relationship between valence-band and conduction-band states
near the Fermi energy (see, e.g., Refs. [29; 30; 31]), did not change
with the Cu doping that induced the superconducting state for
Cu_(x)TiSe₂, even though the CDW was destabilized.[25] The CDW in
2_H_-TaS₂ is more conventional in character, however, incommensurate and
related to electron count and Fermi-surface nesting.[32] It is therefore
possible that the q of the CDW will change in Cu_(x)TaS₂, as electrons
are doped into the electronic system, through changing the size or shape
of the Fermi surface. To test whether this is the case, we performed ED
studies comparing undoped 2_H_-TaS₂ and the optimal superconducting
composition, Cu_(0.04)TaS₂, at low temperatures. The CDW is well
developed at both compositions. The ED patterns of the pure 2_H_-TaS₂
and the Cu_(0.04)TaS₂ samples are shown in Figs. 8(e) and 8(a),
respectively. They reveal dramatic changes in the CDW on Cu doping. For
TaS₂ itself [Fig. 8(e)], the CDW peaks are sharp, indicating a long CDW
coherence length. Quantitative measurement of the diffracted intensities
allows for fitting of the line profiles of the CDW reflections to
determine the peak positions and the full widths at half maximum. The q
of the CDW for TaS₂ is found to be [0.341(3), 0, 0], in good agreement
with previous reports (q=0.338). Further, the narrow peak width
indicates that the coherence length for the CDW state is larger than 50
nm. For the optimally copper-doped superconducting sample [Fig. 8(a)],
the CDW peaks are substantially more diffuse but still present.
Quantitative fitting of the CDW peak profiles shows both a significant
change in the q vector of the CDW, to [0.358(4), 0, 0], and a decrease
in the coherence length of the CDW regions by a factor of at least 10,
to 4-5 nm. Thus the Cu doping has a clear twofold effect on the CDW.
First, the change in q indicates an electronic-doping-induced change in
the Fermi surface compared to that of TaS₂ [though there may be a small
additional contribution to the difference in q due to the different
temperatures (11 K vs 25 K) of the two diffraction patterns]. Second,
there is a dramatic decrease in the CDW coherence length, indicative of
a disorder-induced disruption of the coherence of the CDW, which becomes
limited to short distances on Cu doping. Our results on the
characterization of the Cu_(x)TaS₂ system are summarized in the
electronic phase diagram in Fig. 9.

Figure 6: (Color online) Characterization of the superconducting state
in Cu_(0.04)TaS₂. (a) M(H) isotherms, with the low-H part expanded in
the inset. The estimated H_(c2) and H_(c1) values are indicated by large
triangles and small vertical arrows, respectively. (b) Estimated H-T
phase diagram with H_(c1) values (left axis) and H_(c2) values (right
axis) as determined from M(T, H) (full symbols) and C_(p)(T, H) (open
symbols) data. The dotted line represents the linear fit close to T_(c)
according to the WWH formula.

Figure 7: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the Seebeck
coefficients for Cu_(x)TaS₂. Upper panel: general behavior of the
Seebeck coefficients over a wide temperature and x range. Lower panel:
detail of the behavior for x=0, 0.01, 0.03, and 0.04 in the vicinity of
the CDW transition. The lines are guides for the eyes.

## IV Discussion

The fact that T_(c) is pushed above 2 K in 2H-TaS₂ by very low amounts
of doping gives some insight into the many observations of
superconductivity above 1 K in nominally pure 2H-TaS₂ and variants doped
with organic molecules.[23, 24] "TaS₂" samples with indications of T_(c)
above 1 K may, in fact, be very slightly nonstoichiometric through
having small Ta excess or sub-1

Despite overall similarities, there are significant differences between
the Cu_(x)TiSe₂ and Cu_(x)TaS₂ systems. The sharp initial increase in
the electronic contribution to the specific heat on Cu doping in
Cu_(x)TaS₂ to a maximum at around x =0.03, followed by a decrease at
higher x, is in distinct contrast to what is observed in the Cu_(x)TiSe₂
system.[25] In that case, γ increases continuously with Cu doping and
continues to increase for compositions beyond that of the optimal
superconductor at Cu_(0.08)TiSe₂. Therefore the decrease in T_(c) with
increasing x cannot be due to a decreasing density of states. For
Cu_(x)TaS₂ on the other hand, the substantial decrease in T_(c) for Cu
contents beyond the optimal 0.04 doping could be due to the 50

Figure 8: [(a)–(d)] Temperature evolution of the electron-diffraction
(ED) patterns in the hk0 plane for Cu_(0.01)TaS₂. Bright spots are the
diffraction peaks from the hexagonal crystal structure. Diffuse
scattering is present at high temperatures, but at 55 and 25 K, the
diffraction peaks from the CDW are clearly observed. (e) hk0 plane ED
pattern at 11 K of 2H-TaS₂. The weak sharp CDW reflections are clearly
shown between the fundamental reflections. (f) and (g) are the intensity
profiles of the fundamental and the CDW reflections measured [along the
dashed line in Fig. 8(e)] from the ED patterns in Figs. 8(a) and 8(e)
for Cu_(0.04)TaS₂ and TaS₂, respectively. Quantitative fits of the CDW
peak intensity profiles yield a CDW q=(0.341 ± 0.003)a^(*) for TaS₂ and
a CDW q =(0.358 ± 0.004)a^(*) for Cu_(0.04)TaS₂. The coherence length of
the CDW is greater than 50 nm for TaS₂ and only ∼4−5 nm for
Cu_(0.04)TaS₂.

Figure 9: (Color online) Electronic phase diagram for Cu_(x)TaS₂. Inset:
the 2H-TaS₂ crystal structure. Copper is inserted between the TaS₂
planes.

As for the copper oxide high-T_(c) superconductors, where the
competition between antiferromagnetism and superconductivity evolves as
a function of electronic doping, the evolving balance between competing
electronic states in CDW/superconducting systems is one of their most
fundamentally interesting characteristics. This has been the subject of
theoretical study for decades, and the analysis continues to evolve
(see, e.g., Refs. [7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13]). The details of exactly how
CDWs and superconductivity compete at the microscopic level have not
been experimentally established in the layered dichalcogenides to nearly
the degree that the analogous competition has been established in the
copper oxides, in part due to the unavailability of systems where the
balance can be carefully titrated in chemically and structurally simple
equilibrium compounds. Detailed experimental comparison between
Cu_(x)TiSe₂ and Cu_(x)TaS₂, for example, where the chemistry, structure,
and general superconductivity/CDW phase diagrams are very similar, but
the Fermi surfaces and microscopic reasons for the presence of the CDW
may be fundamentally different, could help us to establish whether
universal behavior exists for systems of this type.

###### Acknowledgements.

The work at Princeton was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy,
Division of Basic Energy Sciences, under Grant No. DE-FG02-98ER45706.
Work at Brookhaven National Laboratory was supported by the U.S. DOE/BES
under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886. E.M. acknowledges support from
Rice University. T.M.M. acknowledges the support of the NSF Graduate
Research Foundation Program.

## References

* [1] J. A. Wilson and A. D. Yoffe, Adv. Phys. **18**, 193 (1969). * [2]
J. A. Wilson, F. J. DiSalvo, and S. Mahajan, Adv. Phys. **24**, 117
(1975). * [3] R. C. Morris, Phys. Rev. Lett. **34**, 1164 (1975). * [4]
M. Nunez-Regueiro, J. M. Mignot, M. Jaime, D. Castello, and P. Monceau,
Synth. Met. **56**, 2653 (1993). * [5] T. Kumakura, H. Tan, T. Handa, M.
Morishita, and H. Fukuyama, Czech. J. Phys. **46**, 2611 (1996). * [6]
Y. Singh, R. Nirmala, S. Ramakrishnan, and S. K. Malik, Phys. Rev. B
**72**, 045106 (2005). * [7] T. M. Rice and G. K. Scott, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **35**, 120 (1975). * [8] R. L. Withers and J. A. Wilson, J. Phys.
C **19**, 4809 (1986). * [9] C. Felser, K. Thieme, and R. Seshadri, J.
Mater. Chem. **9**, 451 (1999). * [10] A. H. Castro Neto, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **86**, 4382 (2001). * [11] B. Uchoa, G. G. Cabrera, and A. H.
Castro Neto, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 184509 (2005). * [12] M. D. Johannes,
I. I. Mazin, and C. A. Howells, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 205102 (2006). *
[13] Zi-Jian Yao, Jian-Xin Li, and Z. D. Wang, Phys. Rev. B **74**,
212507 (2006). * [14]_Physics and Chemistry of Materials with Layered
Structures_, Preparation and Crystal Growth of Materials with Layered
Structures Vol. I, edited by R. M. A. Lieth (Reidel, Boston, 1977). *
[15] Y. Nozuyama and S. Iida, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part **2 23**, L319
(1984). * [16] J. P. Tidman, O. Singh, A. E. Curzon, and R. F. Frindt,
Philos. Mag. **30**, 1191 (1974). * [17] G. A. Scholz, O. Singh, R. F.
Frindt, and A. E. Curzon, Solid State Commun. **44**, 1455 (1982). *
[18] M. H. van Maaren and H. B. Harland, Phys. Lett. **29A**, 571
(1969). * [19] S. Nagata, T. Aochi, T. Abe, S. Ebisu, T. Hagino, Y.
Seki, and K. Tsutsumi, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **53**, 1259 (1992). * [20]
L. Fang, Y. Wang, P. Y. Zou, L. Tang, Z. Xu, H. Chen, C. Dong, L. Shan,
and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 014534 (2005). * [21] W. Z. Hu, G.
Li, J. Yan, H. H. Wen, G. Wu, X. H. Chen, and N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev. B
**76**, 045103 (2007). * [22] R. M. Fleming and R. V. Coleman, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **34**, 1502 (1975). * [23] F. R. Gamble, F. J. DiSalvo, R.
Klemm, and T. H. Geballe, Science **168**, 568 (1970). * [24] F. R.
Gamble, J. H. Osiecki, M. Cais, R. Pisharodi, F. J. DiSalvo, and T. H.
Geballe, Science **174**, 493 (1971). * [25] E. Morosan, H. W.
Zandbergen, B. S. Dennis, J. W. G. Bos, Y. Onose, T. Klimczuk, A. P.
Ramirez, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Nat. Phys. **2**, 544 (2006). * [26]
N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [27] N. Ru, C. L. Condron, G. Y. Margulis, K. Y. Shin, J.
Laverock, S. B. Dugdale, M. F. Toney, and I. R. Fisher, Phys. Rev. B
**77**, 035114 (2008). * [28] S. van Smaalen, M. Shaz, L. Palatinus, P.
Daniels, F. Galli, G. J. Nieuwenhuys, and J. A. Mydosh, Phys. Rev. B
**69**, 014103 (2004). * [29] J. A. Wilson and S. Mahajan, Commun. Phys.
(London) **2**, 23 (1977). * [30] T. E. Kidd, T. Miller, M. Y. Chou, and
T.-C. Chiang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 226402 (2002). * [31] D. Qian, D.
Hsieh, L. Wray, E. Morosan, N. L. Wang, Y. Xia, R. J. Cava, and M. Z.
Hasan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 117007 (2007). * [32] W. C. Tonjes, V.
A. Greanya, R. Liu, C. G. Olson, and P. Molinie, Phys. Rev. B **63**,
235101 (2001). * [33] H. Barath, M. Kim, J. F. Karpus, S. L. Cooper, P.
Abbamonte, E. Fradkin, E. Morosan, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**100**, 106402 (2008).
