# Superconductor derived from a topological insulator heterostructure

Satoshi Sasaki, Kouji Segawa, and Yoichi Ando

y_ando@sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp Institute of Scientific and Industrial
Research, Osaka University, Ibaraki, Osaka 567-0047, Japan

Received 7 April 2014; revised manuscript received 19 November 2014;
published 1 December 2014

###### Abstract

Topological superconductors (TSCs) are of significant current interest
because they offer promising platforms for finding Majorana fermions.
Here we report on a superconductor synthesized by intercalating Cu into
a naturally formed topological insulator (TI) heterostructure consisting
of Bi₂Se₃ TI units separated by nontopological PbSe units.
Interestingly, in this TI-based superconductor, the specific-heat
behavior suggests the occurrence of unconventional superconductivity
with gap nodes. The existence of gap nodes in a strongly spin-orbit
coupled superconductor would give rise to spin-split Andreev bound
states that are the hallmark of topological superconductivity. Hence,
this superconductor emerges as an intriguing candidate TSC.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.90.220504 PACS number(s): 74.10.+v, 74.25.Bt,
74.70.Dd, 74.78.Fk

A major theme in current condensed matter physics is to understand and
explore the roles of topology in quantum mechanics. In topological
insulators (TIs), a nontrivial topology of the quantum-mechanical wave
functions leads to the appearance of gapless conducting states at the
boundary (i.e., edge or surface) [1, 2, 3]. Topological superconductors
(TSCs) are conceptually similar to TIs and are characterized by gapless
quasiparticle states at the boundary [1, 4, 5, 6], but an important
distinction from TIs is that the boundary state of a TSC is a good place
to look for Majorana fermions [7, 8, 9], which possess a distinct
property that particles are their own antiparticles and would be useful
for fault-tolerant topological quantum computing. In this context,
superconductors derived from TIs are of particular interest, because the
strong spin-orbit coupling inherent to TIs may lead to unconventional
pairing that is a prerequisite to TSCs [9]. However, there have been
only a few cases in which superconductivity is found in doped TIs [10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16], and it is strongly desired that a
superconductor with promising indications of unconventional
superconductivity be discovered in a doped TI.

Recently, two of the authors have contributed to the discovery of an
interesting topological insulator [17], (PbSe₃)(Bi₂Se₃)₆. This is a
member of the Pb-based homologous series of compounds [18],
(PbSe₃)₈(Bi₂Se₃)_(3m) (m = 1, 2, …), which form natural multilayer
heterostructures of a topological insulator (Bi₂Se₃) and an ordinary
insulator (PbSe). It was found that at m = 2, the PbSe unit works as a
block layer and the topological boundary states are encapsulated in each
Bi₂Se₃ unit, making the system to possess quasi-two-dimensional
(quasi-2D) states of topological origin throughout the bulk [17]. Hence,
the m = 2 material is a peculiar type of TI filled with quasi-2D
topological bands that originate due to the nontrivial Z₂ topology of
the Bi₂Se₃ unit. Bi₂Se₃ consists of a stack of Se-Bi-Se-Bi-Se quintuple
layers (QLs), and the m = 2 member of (PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se₃)_(3m) has 2 QLs in
its Bi₂Se₃ unit [see Fig. 1(a)]. In the middle of this 2-QL unit is a
van der Waals gap, into which intercalations of atoms or molecules are
possible.

Motivated by the occurrence of superconductivity in Bi₂Se₃ upon Cu
intercalation [10, 19], we tried to make (PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₆ (called CPSBS)
superconducting via Cu intercalation. We first grew high-quality,
single-phase crystals of PSBS (m = 2) with an improved method [20], and
adopted the electrochemical technique which we developed for making
high-quality Cu₄Bi₂Se₃ superconductors [19]; as a result, we have
succeeded in synthesizing a superconductor [20]. Intriguingly, this
material, Cu_(x)(PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₆ (called CPSBS), turned out to be quite
different from its cousin, Cu₄Bi₂Se₃: First, this superconductor
presents an unusual specific-heat behavior which suggests unconventional
superconductivity. Second, nearly 100

Figure 1(b) shows the resistivity data for PSBS and CPSBS (x = 1.36).
The Cu intercalation causes a sharp superconducting transition at 2.85
K, and at the same time, it introduces moderate electron scattering to
enhance the residual resistivity. The carrier density increases from
n_(x) ≃ 4 × 10²⁰ in PSBS to 1.2 × 10²¹ cm⁻³ in CPSBS (x = 1.36), which
suggests that each intercalated Cu introduces about 0.7 electrons on
average [20]. The Hall resistivity data indicate that the transport is
governed by only one band (see Fig. S1(b) of the Supplemental Material
[20]), suggesting that the topological and nontopological bands of the
Bi₂Se₃ unit [17] may well have merged at the chemical potential of
CPSBS. Such a merger does not preclude the occurrence of bulk
topological superconductivity [21].

As shown in Figs. 1(c) and 1(d), in the present set of samples the onset
of superconductivity was essentially independent of x and was always
around 2.9 K for x = 0.3-2.3, whereas the shielding fraction (the
fraction of the sample volume from which the magnetic field is kept out
due to superconductivity after zero-field cooling) was very much sample
dependent; note that, in the case of type-II superconductors, the
shielding fraction is a better measure of the superconducting volume
fraction than the Meissner fraction measured upon field cooling, because
the latter is significantly affected by flux trapping. The random nature
of the obtained shielding fraction vs x signifies the difficulty in
synthesizing a homogeneous superconductor with intercalation, and
apparently the Cu atoms in the majority of our samples are inhomogeneous
intercalated; nevertheless, we have confirmed that the superconducting
portion is not forming a "shell" in our samples [20]. Furthermore, we
have been able to achieve essentially 100

In the following, we focus on two samples with x = 1.36 and 1.66, which
presented essentially 100

Such a peculiar behavior in $c_{\rm el}/T$ suggests the existence of
nodes in the superconducting gap for the following reasons: First, when
the gap has nodes, the averaged gap magnitude becomes smaller than the
fully gapped case,

Figure 2: (Color online) Shielding fraction and specific heat. (a) and
(c) Temperature dependencies of the dc magnetic susceptibility measured
in 0.2 mT applied parallel to the ab plane with the field-cooling (FC)
and zero-field-cooling (ZFC) procedures for (a) x = 1.66 and (c)
x = 1.36, presented in terms of the shielding fraction. Since the
demagnetization effect is minimal for this geometry and the sample shape
was irregular, we did not make any correction for it [the x = 1.66
(1.36) sample was 0.23 (0.16) mm thick and 1.6 ± 0.3 (1.7 ± 0.35) mm
long along the B field]. (b) and (d) Superconducting transition in
$c_{\rm el}/T$ in 0 T obtained after subtracting the phonon contribution
determined in 2 T (see Fig. S2 [20]). The dashed line is the
weak-coupling BCS behavior (coupling constant α = 1.76) for T_(c) of
2.85 K. The green solid line is the theoretical curve for d-wave pairing
on a simple cylindrical Fermi surface with line nodes along the axial
direction [23]. Horizontal solid line corresponds to $\gamma_{\rm N}$.

Figure 1: (Color online) $\rm Cu_{t}(PbSe)_{3}(Bi_{2}Se_{3})_{6}$
superconductor. (a) Crystal structure [32] based on the data for PSBS
[18]. Cu atoms are intercalated into the van der Waals gaps marked by
red arrow. (b) Temperature dependencies of the resistivity ρ_(xx) for
PSBS (x = 1.36). Inset shows the sharp superconducting transition at
2.85 K. (c) Onset T_(c) measured by dc magnetic susceptibility for
samples with various x values. (d) Shielding fractions of the samples
presented in (c) at 1.8 K. (e) XRD pattern measured on a cleaved surface
(ab plane) of a superconducting CPSBS sample with x = 1.00 (shielding
fraction ∼60

and the specific-heat jump is naturally reduced [6,22]; the green solid
line in Figs. 2(b) and 2(d) gives an example for the d-wave
superconductivity with line nodes [23]. Second, in contrast to the
conventional BCS case in which $c_{\rm d}/T$ decreases exponentially at
low T because of a finite activation energy, the existence of nodes
allows thermal excitations of quasiparticles down to very low
temperatures, changing the T dependence of $c_{\rm el}/T$ from
exponential to a power law [6].

As one can see in Figs. 2(b) and 2(d), our data, particularly the strong
T dependence near 0 K, bear striking similarity to the theoretical
$c_{\rm d}/T$ behavior expected for a superconductor with line nodes
[23], which points to the realization of unconventional
superconductivity in CPSBS. Of course, specific-heat measurements alone
are not sufficient for unambiguously nailing down the existence of
nodes, because a multiband superconductor with a very small gap in one
of the bands or an anisotropic s-wave superconductor with very small gap
minima would give rise to a $c_{\rm d}/T$ behavior similar to what we
found in CPSBS. Hence, phase-sensitive measurements are crucially
important in the future research of this material. Also, STM and NMR
experiments would be very useful for elucidating the unconventional
superconductivity.

Note that in the case of nodal superconductors, impurity scattering
causes a finite density of quasiparticle states at 0 K, causing
$(c_{\rm el}/T)_{T\to 0}$ to be finite even in a 100

Due to the quasi-2D nature of the parent material PSBS [17], the
superconductivity in CPSBS is likely to be realized on a quasi-2D Fermi
surface, which is distinct from the three-dimensional (3D) bulk Fermi
surface of Bi₂Se₃. This implies that the theory of 3D topological
superconductivity proposed for Cu_(x)Bi₂Se₃[9] is not directly
applicable. Nevertheless, it is still expected that strong spin-orbit
coupling responsible for the topological nature of the parent material
causes the effective pairing interaction to become spin dependent, which
would lead to unconventional superconductivity [9]. When the Fermi
surface is quasi-2D, a node in the unconventional superconducting gap is
naturally extended along the c^(*) axis, forming a line node in the 3D
Brillouin zone. It thus expected that, if gap nodes were to be present
in CPSBS, the $c_{\rm el}/T$ behavior should be close to that of a
superconductor with line nodes.

The possible existence of line nodes in CPSBS is further supported by
the magnetic-field dependence of the specific heat. Figure 3(a) shows
the $c_{\rm el}/T$ vs T plots for various magnetic fields applied
perpendicular to the ab plane described in Fig. S2 of the Supplemental
Material [20], from which we extract the magnetic-field dependence of
$c_{\rm el}$ at the lowest temperature, 0.35 K; here, to make our best
effort to quantify its behavior, the data are corrected for a small
Schottky anomaly [20], which is only  ≲ 20

Figures 4(a) and 4(c) show the magnetic-field-induced resistive
transitions at various temperatures in B ⊥ ab and in B ∥ ab,
respectively, from which the resistive upper critical fields
B_(c2, 1)(T) and B_(c2, 1)(T) are extracted. We plot in Figs. 4(b) and
4(d) the magnetic field values at which 2

The B_(c2)(T) behavior expected for a conventional superconductor from
the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) theory [29] tends to saturate for
T → 0, as shown with solid lines in Figs. 4(b) and 4(d). On the other
hand, our experimental data present much weaker tendency toward
saturation. We note that the Pauli paramagnetic limit [29],
$B_{\rm Pauli}=1.84T_{c}=5.3$ T, is larger than our B_(c2), so the
violation of the conventional behavior is not as strong as in the case
of exotic superconductors such as UBe₁₃[26]. Nevertheless, similar
violations of the WHH theory to those found here

Figure 3: (Color online) Specific heat in magnetic fields. (a)
Temperature dependencies of $c_{\rm el}/T$ in various magnetic fields
(B ⊥ ab) for x = 1.66. Small Schottky anomaly that becomes nonnegligible
above ∼1.5 T has been subtracted (see [20]). Horizontal solid line
corresponds to $\gamma_{\rm N}$. (b) Magnetic-field dependence of
$c_{\rm el}$ at 0.35 K taken from the data in (a). The red solid line is
the best fit of the function a B^(*) + c₀ to the data, yielding
n = 0.50 ± 0.06, a = 1.2 ± 0.1 (mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻¹ T^(−α)), and
c₀ = 0.25 ± 0.09 (mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻¹). Horizontal solid line corresponds to
$\gamma_{\rm N}T$ at T = 0.35 K.

have been discussed as being indicative of unconventional
superconductivity in Cu_(s)Bi₂Se₃[13] and in Bi₂Se₃ under high pressure
[14].

We have further characterized the CPSBS superconductor by measuring the
lower critical field B_(c1), which was determined to be 0.34 mT for B∥ab
at 0 K (Fig. S6(c) of the Supplemental Material [20]). Knowing B_(c1)],
B_(c2⊥), and B_(c2∥), one can obtain the Ginzburg-Landau parameter
κ_(ab) = 192, the penetration depths λ_(ab) = 1.3μm and λ_(c),  = 2.2μm,
and the thermodynamic critical field B_(c) = 16.6 mT [20]. The long
penetration depths are consistent with the low carrier density and
moderate disorder in CPSBS.

It is striking that all the bulk properties of the superconductor CPSBS
shown here point to possible occurrence of unconventional
superconductivity accompanied with line nodes. The existence of line
nodes implies a sign-changing gap function, which generically gives rise
to surface Andreev bound states [30]. Strong spin-orbit coupling causes
such surface Andreev states to be spin-split and form
spin-non-degenerate Kramers pairs, which means that they become helical
Majorana fermions [9]. Indeed, nodal superconductors with strong
spin-orbit coupling have been discussed as being topological [11, 31].
Therefore, the superconductivity in CPSBS has a good chance to be
topological and harbor Majorana fermions. We should note, however, that
the present data do not fully guarantee that CPSBS realizes a
topological superconductivity, because a nodal gap can also be found in
anisotropic s-wave superconductivity. To nail down the topological
nature, making a Josephson junction with a conventional superconductor
to measure a nontrivial current-phase relationship coming from boundary
Majorana fermions [7, 8] would be a smoking-gun experiment.

We thank T. Toba for his help in synthesizing the samples, K. Eto and M.
Kriener for technical assistance, and L. Fu, Y. Tanaka, A. Taskin, and
A. Yamakage for helpful discussions. This work was supported by Japan
Society for the Promotion of Science (KAKENHI 24740237, 24540320, and
25220708), MEXT (Innovative Area "Topological Quantum Phenomena"
KAKENHI), Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AOARD 124038), and
the Inamori Foundation.

## References

* [1] X.-L. Qi and S.-C. Zhang, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1057 (2011). *
[2] M. Z. Hasan and C. L. Kane, Rev. Mod. Phys. **82**, 3045 (2010). *
[3] Y. Ando, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 102001 (2013). * [4] A. P.
Schnyder, S. Ryu, A. Furusaki, and A. W. W. Ludwig, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
195125 (2008). * [5] Y. Tanaka, M. Sato, and N. Nagaosa, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **81**, 011013 (2012). * [6] Y. Maeno, S. Kittaka, T. Nomura, S.
Yonezawa, and K. Ishida, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 011009 (2012). * [7]
J. Alicea, Rep. Prog. Phys. **75**, 076501 (2012). * [8] C. W. J.
Beenakker, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. **4**, 113 (2013). * [9] L.
Fu and E. Berg, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 097001 (2010). * [10] Y. S.
Hor, A. J. Williams, J. G. Checkelsky, P. Roushan, J. Seo, Q. Xu, H. W.
Zandbergen, A. Yazdani, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**104**, 057001 (2010). * [11] S. Sasaki, M. Kriener, K. Segawa, K.
Yada, Y. Tanaka, M. Sato, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **107**, 217001
(2011). * [12] S. Sasaki, Z. Ren, A. A. Taskin, K. Segawa, L. Fu, and Y.
Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 217004 (2012). * [13] T. V. Bay, T.
Naka, Y. K. Huang, H. Luigjes, M. S. Golden, and A. de Visser, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **108**, 057001 (2012). * [14] K. Kirshenbaum, P. S. Syers,
A. P. Hope, N. P. Butch, J. R. Jeffries, S. T. Weir, J. J. Hamlin, M. B.
Maple, Y. K. Vohra, and J. Paglione, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 087001
(2013). * [15] G. Goll, M. Marz, A. Hamann, T. Tomanic, K. Grube, T.
Yoshino, and T. Takabatake, Physica B **403**, 1065 (2008). * [16] N. P.
Butch, P. Syers, K. Kirshenbaum, A. P. Hope, and J. Paglione, Phys. Rev.
B **84**, 220504(R) (2011). * [17] K. Nakayama, K. Eto, Y. Tanaka, T.
Sato, S. Souma, T. Takahashi, K. Segawa, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**109**, 236804 (2012). * [18] L. Fang, C. C. Stoumpos, Y. Jia, A.
Glatz, D. Y. Chung, H. Claus, U. Welp, W. K. Kwok, and M. G. Kanatzidis,
Phys. Rev. B **90**, 020504(R) (2014).

Figure 4: (Color online) Upper critical field B_(c2): (a) and (c)
Magnetic-field-induced resistive transitions measured at various
temperatures in the x = 1.36 sample for (a) B ⊥ ab and (c) B∥ab. Three
levels of the resistivity ρ_(x), in those transitions, corresponding to
2

* [19] M. Kriener, K. Segawa, Z. Ren, S. Sasaki, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **106**, 127004 (2011). * [20] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.90.220504 for
materials and methods, supplemental data, and additional discussions. *
[21] T. H. Hsieh and L. Fu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 107005 (2012). *
[22] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New
York, 1975). * [23] H. Won and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1397
(1994). * [24] K. Maki, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. D. Parks
(Marcel Dekker, New York, 1969). * [25] G. E. Volovik, Pis’ma v ZhETF
**58**, 457 (1993) [JETP Lett. **58**, 469 (1993)]. * [26] M. B. Maple,
J. W. Chen, S. E. Lambert, Z. Fisk, J. L. Smith, H. R. Ott, J. S.
Brooks, and M. J. Naughton, Phys. Rev. Lett. **54**, 477 (1985). * [27]
H. Q. Yuan, J. Singleton, F. F. Balakirev, S. A. Baily, G. F. Chen, J.
L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Nature (London) **457**, 565 (2009). * [28] M.
A. Tanatar, N. Ni, C. Martin, R. T. Gordon, H. Kim, V. G. Kogan, G. D.
Samolyuk, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 094507 (2009). * [29] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev **147**, 295 (1966). * [30] S. Kashiwaya and Y.
Tanaka, Rep. Prog. Phys. **63**, 1641 (2000). * [31] M. Sato and S.
Fujimoto, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 217001 (2010). * [32] K. Momma and
F. Izumi, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **44**, 1272 (2011).
