# Anomalous effect of doping on the superconducting state of CeCoIn₅ in
high magnetic fields

Y. Tokiwa,^(1, 2) R. Movshovich,¹ F. Ronning,¹ E. D. Bauer,¹ A. D.
Bianchi,³ Z. Fisk,⁴ and J. D. Thompson¹

¹Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA

²I. Physikalisches Institut, Georg-August Universitat Gottingen,
Gottingen 37077, Germany

³Departement de Physique Montreal, Universite de Montreal, Quebec,
Canada H3C 3J7

⁴Department of Physics, University of California at Irvine, Irvine,
California 92697, USA

###### Abstract

We investigated the effect of electron and hole doping on the high-field
low-temperature superconducting state in CeCoIn₅ by measuring specific
heat of CeCo(In_(1 − x),M_(x))₅ with M=Sn, Cd, and Hg and x up to 0.33

pacs: 74.70.Tx, 74.62.En + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

Magnetic field’s coupling to spins of the electrons of a superconducting
(SC) pair (Cooper pair) destroys superconductivity via the
Pauli-limiting effect.[1] In the normal state, magnetic field splits the
spin-up and spin-down states (Zeeman splitting), and the system can
lower its free energy by preferentially populating the lower energy
level (spin-up band). This also gives rise to the Pauli susceptibility.
On the other hand, the energy of a spin-singlet SC state cannot be
affected by Zeeman effect because electrons pair up with opposite spins,
i.e., there is an equal number of superconducting spin-up and spin-down
electrons. When the energy gain from Zeeman effect in the normal state
exceeds the SC condensation energy with increasing magnetic field,
superconductivity is destroyed at a Pauli-limiting field $H_{\rm P}$.
The field’s coupling to the orbital motion of the superconducting
electrons also can destroy superconductivity at a characteristic field
H_(c2)⁰. For strongly Pauli-limited superconductors (when the Maki
parameter α=$\sqrt[2]{H_{c2}^{0}}/H_{\rm P}$ is large) a number of
peculiar properties were anticipated theoretically in 1960s. The SC
transition was predicted to become first order at high fields, when
T_(c) is suppressed below 0.56T_(c)(H=0).[2, 3] The Zeeman effect was
also expected to lead to a spatially inhomogeneous SC state, stable at
high fields and low temperatures, proposed by Fulde and Ferrell[4] and
Larkin and Ovchinnikov[5] (FFLO).

The discovery of a strongly Pauli-limited superconductor CeCoIn₅ has
triggered numerous investigations of its peculiar SC properties.[6, 7]
CeCoIn₅ is SC below T_(c)=2.25 K with a large Maki parameter α, which is
anisotropic with respect to the direction of the magnetic field and
ranges between 3.5 (H∥[001]) and 4.5 (H∥[100]).[8] CeCoIn₅ shows a
first-order SC transition in a bulk superconductor via specific heat and
magnetization anomalies at high fields.[8, 9] in accord with the above
mentioned theoretical expectations. When a high magnetic field close to
H_(c2) is applied within the basal (a-b) plane of the tetragonal crystal
structure of CeCoIn₅, specific heat shows an additional anomaly within
the superconducting state into a high-field low-temperature (HFLT)
phase, originally proposed to be a realization of a long-searched-for
FFLO state.[10, 11]

In this Rapid Communication, we show that very small amounts of both
magnetic (Cd and Hg) and nonmagnetic (Sn) doping have dramatic effects
on both gross superconducting properties (H_(c2)) and the evolution and
stability of the HFLT phase in CeCoIn₅. Our data, in particular, the
broadening of the specific heat anomaly, suggest that the underlying
origins of this phase are indeed of the FFLO nature.

The HFLT transition itself has been confirmed by penetration depth,[12]
thermal conductivity,[13] ultrasound velocity,[14] magnetostriction,[15]
and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) (Refs. [16, 17, 18]) measurements
(for a recent review, see Ref. [19]). Importantly, NMR investigation[20]
revealed a long-range antiferromagnetic (AFM) order within the HFLT
state.[20] Further, magnetic Bragg peaks with an incommensurate
propagation vector Q⃗=(0.44, 0.44, 0.50), was found within the HFLT SC
phase by neutron scattering,[21] and that phase was named by the authors
Q phase, in reference to the observed Q⃗. The presence of the long-range
AFM order revealed by the NMR and neutron-scattering experiments gave
rise to an alternative possibility of magnetism being the driving force
of the phase transition into the HFLT state. Our present doping studies
test this hypothesis.

Figure 1 shows evolution of T_(c) and $T_{\rm N}$ for Cd-doped and T_(c)
for Sn-doped[22] CeCoIn₅ at zero field. Both Cd and Sn doping suppress
the SC state monotonically and Cd doping induces AFM order above 0.5

Since Cd doping induces AFM order, one would naively expect it to also
stabilize the HFLT phase with its long-range AFM order. However, the
HFLT phase was found to be extremely fragile with respect to Cd and Hg
impurities.[24] Only 0.05

The AFM order in CeCoIn₅, induced by Cd doping above 0.5

Specific-heat measurements were performed on single platelike samples
with a typical weight of 1-3 mg. Initial sample characterization via
microprobe analysis, using wavelength dispersive spectroscopy, showed
uniform distribution of the dopants. Specific heat was measured in a
dilution refrigerator with a superconducting magnet, employing the
quasiadiabatic heat pulse method.

We first address the effects of doping on the gross features of the
phase diagram of CeCoIn₅. In zero field (see Fig. 1) the low doping
behavior for Cd and Sn doping is similar, reflecting impurity pair
breaking effects. At high field the response of CeCoIn₅ to small amounts
of hole and electron doping is strikingly different. Figure 2 shows
_H-T_ phase diagrams of Cd-doped CeCoIn₅ for the field along [001] and
[100]. H_(c2) increases for both H[∥001] and [100]. The zero-field T_(c)
monotonically decreases with Cd doping, and increase in H_(c2) leads to
the crossing of SC phase boundaries for the undoped and Cd-doped CeCoIn₅
[Fig. 2(b)], indicating more stable SC state at high fields in the
Cd-doped compounds. Extrapolated H_(c2) to zero temperature is shown in
the insets. H_(c2) exhibits a maximum at x=0.22

The orbital limiting field, H_(c2)⁰=0.7T_(c)/dT_(c2)/dT∥_(T = T_(c)),
for H[∥100] is 37, 37, 36 and 39± 1 T for x=0

$$\begin{array}{l}=\left[T_{c}(x)/H_{\rm P}(x)\right]/\left[T_{c}(0)/H_{\rm P} (0)\right]\left(\mbox{not shown}\right).\end{array}$$

As $H_{\rm P}$ exhibits a maximum at 0.22

We now address the effect of small levels of electron and hole doping on
the HFLT phase. We will show that Sn (electron) doping has both similar
and opposite effects, to those of Cd and Hg (hole) doping, on the
superconducting state of CeCoIn₅. However, the data are consistent and
can be understood within one picture.

Figure 3 shows specific heat divided by temperature, C/T, of
CeCo(In_(1 − x)T_(x))₅ (T=Cd, Hg, and Sn) at 11 T, and for T=Sn at
x=0.08

Figure 2: (Color online) _H-T_ phase diagrams of CeCo(In_(1 − x)Cd₄)₅
with x=0

Figure 1: Zero-field superconducting transition temperature, T_(c), of
CeCo(In_(1 − x)Cd₄)₅ and CeCo(In_(1 − x)Sn₅) (Ref. [22]) as a function
of concentration, together with antiferromagnetic transition
temperature, $T_{\rm S}$, of CeCo(In_(1 − x)Cd₄)₅.

cal Sn concentration to destroy the specific-heat anomaly associated
with the HFLT phase, 0.08

The effects on the normal-SC phase boundary at high fields for the two
types of dopants in the low-doping regime are dramatically different.
For Sn doping, T_(c)(H=11 T) shifts monotonically to lower temperature,
contrary to the effect of Cd and Hg doping discussed above. Electron
doping (with Sn) suppresses H_(c2) roughly by the same amount that Cd
and Hg increase it for the same amount of doping (see Fig. 5),
supporting the picture of charge doping (Fermi surface effect) being the
dominant driver of the change in H_(c2).

The response to charge doping of the superconducting critical field
correlates well with that of the HFLT phase. A recent study has shown
that $T_{\rm HFLT}$ increases slightly with Hg doping while the
specific-heat anomaly associated with the transition into the HFLT state
broadens and is quickly destroyed.[24] Figure 4 shows that both HFLT and
the homogenous SC states expand in H-T phase space with Hg doping. For
nonmagnetic Sn doping, on the other hand, both SC and HFLT states
contract, and both T_(c) and $T_{\rm HFLT}$ at 11 T reduce with doping,
as shown in Fig. 3.

The correlation between H_(c2) and $T_{\rm HFLT}$ is clearly seen in
Fig. 5, where these quantities are plotted as functions of both Sn and
Hg doping. Both H_(c2) and $T_{\rm HFLT}$ increase with Hg doping while
they decrease with Sn doping. We also plot $T_{\rm HFLT}$ against T_(c)
at 11 T in the inset of Fig. 5, with the doping concentration x as an
implicit parameter. Remarkably, a line, which goes through the origin,
gives a good fit (solid line).

The observed strong correlation between $T_{\rm HFLT}$(H) and T_(c)(H)
should not be surprising, since the magnetic HFLT phase only exists
within the superconducting state, and therefore its properties should be
strongly linked to the superconducting properties of CeCoIn₅. The
broadening and suppression of the anomaly, however, is much more
significant with respect to the possible origin of the HFLT phase.
Recent theoretical work[30] on the effect of impurities on both FFLO
state and the magnetic-origin scenario[21] showed that the FFLO state is
much more fragile to impurities, a result of the effects of the nodal
planes due to a strong Pauli depairing effect in CeCoIn₅. Contrary, for
a low-temperature state with magnetism as a dominant driving force, one
would expect suppression of T_(c) to zero, without observed strong
broadening and suppression on the specific-heat anomaly itself.[30]

In conclusion, we have studied the effect of magnetic (Cd and Hg) and
nonmagnetic (Sn) doping effects on the high

Figure 4: (Color online) H-T phase diagram of CeCo(In_(1 − x)Hg_(x))₅
for the HFLT phase region of SC state. Solid lines are guide to the
eyes.

Figure 5: Doping dependence of HFLT phase-transition temperature
$T_{\rm HFLT}$ at 11 T for CeCo(In_(1 − x)Hg_(x))₅ and
CeCo(In_(1 − x)Sn_(x))₅ (solid symbols, left axis), together with
superconducting upper critical field, H_(c2), of CeCo(In_(1 − x)Hg_(x))₅
and CeCo(In_(1 − x)Sn_(x))₅ (open symbols, right axis). [◼▫▫▫▫-
CeCo(In_(1 − x)Hg_(x))₅]. ◼▫▫- CeCo(In_(1 − x)Sn_(x))₅] Solid lines are
guide to the eyes. Inset: $T_{\rm HFLT}$ vs T_(c) at 11 T with doping
concentration x as an implicit parameter. Data for both M=Hg and Sn are
plotted. Solid straight line goes through the origin.

Figure 3: (Color online) Specific heat divided by temperature, C/T, for
CeCo(In_(1 − x)T_(c))₅ (T=Sn, Hg, and Cd) as a function of temperature
at 11 and at 10.8 T for T=Sn and x=0.08

field low-temperature superconducting HFLT phase of CeCoIn₅ by means of
specific-heat measurements. H_(c2) increases anomalously with hole
doping while it decreases with electron doping. The change in H_(c2) is
much greater than can be expected to be due to an effective negative
pressure effect and is dominantly an effect of carrier doping on the
Fermi surface. The HFLT phase is extremely sensitive to Sn doping with a
critical concentration of 0.08

We are grateful to I. Vekhter, L. Boulaevskii, M. Graf, J. Sauls, and A.
Balatsky for stimulating discussions. Work at Los Alamos National
Laboratory was performed under the auspices of the U.S. Department of
Energy. A.D.B. received support from NSERC (Canada), FQRNT (Qaubec), and
the Canada Research Chair Foundation. Z.F. acknowledges support NSF
under Grant No. NSF-DMR-0854781.

## References

* [1] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). * [2] K. Maki
and T. Tsuneto, Prog. Theor. Phys. **31**, 945 (1964). * [3] G. Sarma,
J. Phys. Chem. Solids **24**, 1029 (1963). * [4] P. Fulde and R. A.
Ferrell, Phys. Rev. **135**, A550 (1964). * [5] A. I. Larkin and Y. N.
Ovchinnikov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **47**, 1136 (1964) [Sov. Phys. JETP
**20**, 762 (1965)]. * [6] C. Petrovic, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley,
R. Movshovich, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, and P. Monthoux,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L337 (2001). * [7] R. Movshovich, M.
Jaime, J. D. Thompson, C. Petrovic, Z. Fisk, P. G. Pagliuso, and J. L.
Sarrao, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5152 (2001). * [8] A. Bianchi, R.
Movshovich, N. Oeschler, P. Gegenwart, F. Steglich, J. D. Thompson, P.
G. Pagliuso, and J. L. Sarrao, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 137002 (2002). *
[9] T. Tayama, A. Harita, T. Sakakibara, Y. Haga, H. Shishido, R.
Settai, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 180504 (2002). * [10] A.
Bianchi, R. Movshovich, C. Capan, P. G. Pagliuso, and J. L. Sarrao,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 187004 (2003). * [11] H. A. Radovan, N. A.
Fortune, T. P. Murphy, S. T. Hannahs, E. C. Palm, S. W. Tozer, and D.
Hall, Nature (London) **425**, 51 (2003). * [12] C. Martin, C. C.
Agosta, S. W. Tozer, H. A. Radovan, E. C. Palm, T. P. Murphy, and J. L.
Sarrao, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 020503(R) (2005). * [13] C. Capan, A.
Bianchi, R. Movshovich, A. D. Christianson, A. Malinowski, M. F.
Hundley, A. Lacerda, P. G. Pagliuso, and J. L. Sarrao, Phys. Rev. B
**70**, 134513 (2004). * [14] T. Watanabe, Y. Kasahara, K. Izawa, T.
Sakakibara, Y. Matsuda, C. J. van der Beek, T. Hanaguri, H. Shishido, R.
Settai, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 020506 (2004). * [15] V. F.
Correa, T. P. Murphy, C. Martin, K. M. Purcell, E. C. Palm, G. M.
Schmiedeshoff, J. C. Cooley, and S. W. Tozer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**,
087001 (2007). * [16] K. Kakuyanagi, M. Saitoh, K. Kumagai, S.
Takashima, M. Nohara, H. Takagi, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**94**, 047602 (2005). * [17] V. F. Mitrovic, M. Horvatic, C. Berthier,
G. Knebel, G. Lapertot, and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 117002
(2006). * [18] K. Kumagai, M. Saitoh, T. Oyaizu, Y. Furukawa, S.
Takashima, M. Nohara, H. Takagi, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**97**, 227002 (2006). * [19] Y. Matsuda and H. Shimahara, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **76**, 051005 (2007). * [20] B. L. Young, R. R. Urbano, N. J.
Curro, J. D. Thompson, J. L. Sarrao, A. B. Vorontsov, and M. J. Graf,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 036402 (2007); N. J. Curro, B. L. Young, R. R.
Urbano, and M. J. Graf, Physica C **470**, Suppl. 1, 5521 (2010). * [21]
M. Kenzelmann, Th. Strassle, C. Niedermayer, M. Sigrist, B. Padmanabhan,
M. Zolliker, A. D. Bianchi, R. Movshovich, E. D. Bauer, J. L. Sarrao,
and J. D. Thompson, Science **321**, 1652 (2008). * [22] E. D. Bauer, F.
Ronning, C. Capan, M. J. Graf, D. Vandervelde, H. Q. Yuan, M. B.
Salamon, D. J. Mixson, N. O. Moreno, S. R. Brown, J. D. Thompson, R.
Movshovich, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, P. G. Pagliuso, and S. M.
Kauzlarich, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 245109 (2006). * [23] E. D. Bauer, F.
Ronning, S. Maquilon, L. D. Pham, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk, Physica B
**403**, 1135 (2008). * [24] Y. Tokiwa, R. Movshovich, F. Ronning, E. D.
Bauer, P. Papin, A. D. Bianchi, J. F. Rauscher, S. M. Kauzlarich, and Z.
Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 037001 (2008). * [25] E. D. Bauer, C.
Capan, F. Ronning, R. Movshovich, J. D. Thompson, and J. L. Sarrao,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 047001 (2005). * [26] L. W. Gruenberg and L.
Gunther, Phys. Rev. Lett. **16**, 996 (1966). * [27] C. F. Miclea, M.
Nicklas, D. Parker, K. Maki, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, G. Sparn, and
F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. Lett. **96**, 117001 (2006). * [28] G. Knebel,
D. Aoki, J. P. Brison, and J. Flouquet, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**,
114704 (2008). * [29] L. D. Pham, T. Park, S. Maquilon, J. D. Thompson,
and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 056404 (2006). * [30] R. Ikeda,
Phys. Rev. B **81**, 060510(R) (2010).
