# Pressure dependence of superconductivity in simple-cubic Na2CsC60

J. Mizuki

Fundamental Research Laboratories, NEC Corporation, 34-Meyukigaoka,
Tsukuba 305, Japan

M. Takai

Faculty of Engineering, Tokyo Denki University, Nishiki-cho, Kanda,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101, Japan

H. Takahashi

N. Mori

Institute for Solid State Physics, The University of Tokyo, 7-22-1,
Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106, Japan

K. Tanigaki

Fudamental Research Laboratories, NEC Corporation, 34-Miyukigaoka,
Tsukuba 305, Japan

K. Prassides

School of Chemistry and Molecular Sciences, University of Sussex,
Brighton BN1 9QJ, United Kingdom

###### Abstract

The pressure dependence of the superconducting transition temperature
T_(c) of simple-cubic Na2CsC60 is studied by an ac susceptibility method
with a Swenson-type piston-cylinder apparatus. The observed value of
_dT__c_/_dP_ is -12.5+-0.2 K/GPa, significantly larger than the values
of -7.8 and -9.7 K/GPa reported earlier for K3C60 and Rb3C60,
respectively. Using the compressibility available (that of K3C60), we
find that the evolution of T_(c) with interfullerene spacing in Na2CsC60
is significantly different from that established for merohedrally
disordered face-centered-cubic superconductors M3C60 (_M_ = alkali
metal), but in excellent agreement with the ambient pressure data for
the simple cubic superconductors Na2RbC60 and Na2CsC60. The present
results provide an additional dimension to the existing features of
fulleride superconductors, establishing the importance of the relative
orientation of C603- ions in affecting the electronic and conducting
properties of these materials.

Since the discovery of relatively high-temperature superconductivity in
alkali-metal-doped M3C60 compounds,1-3 a large amount of experimental
and theoretical work4 has been devoted to the understanding of the
properties of these novel molecular solids. At present, the highest
reported superconducting transition temperature T_(c) stands at 33 K,
observed in the RbCs2C60 compound.5 Such a high T_(c) is only surpassed
by the cuprate superconductors. What is most striking for the
superconductivity in these systems is the existence of a simple
monotonic relation between T_(c) and the unit cell size (or
intermolecular spacing), observed both at ambient pressure for a number
of mixed metal M3-_M tant to understand such an anomalous feature for
elucidating the superconductivity in C60-based superconductors.

These considerations motivated the present work in which we address the
relation between T_(c) and lattice constant for simple-cubic fullerides
by measuring the evolution with pressure of the superconducting
properties of Na2CsC60.

In this paper we will explain the apparent paradox of the anomalous
T_(c) for the Rb and normal T_(c) of the Cs isostructural samples, that
is, there exist _two_ universal curves, describing the dependence of
T_(c) on the interfullerene spacing: one for fcc and another much
steeper for simple cubic fullerides, with the differences arising
through the changed orientational state of the fulleride ions.

The Na2CsC60 sample was prepared by reaction of stoichiometric
quantities of C60, Na, and Cs, contained in a tantalum cell inside a
sealed glass tube filled with He to 600 Torr, at 200 degC for 12 h and
at 430 degC for three weeks with intermittent shaking. Phase purity was
confirmed by x-ray-diffraction measurements. The sample was
superconducting with a T_(c) of 12 K and a superconducting volume
fraction of more than 59

Figure 1 shows the ac magnetic susceptibility, χ, of the present
Na2CsC60 sample as a function of temperature in a pressure range from
0.2 to 0.6 GPa. No transition to a superconducting state was observed at
0.8 GPa down to 2 K. The pressure dependence of T_(c) is presented in
Fig. 2. The error bars in the temperature in Figs. 2 and 3 represent the
scatter of the data for triply-performed measurements. As it can be
seen, T_(c) varies linearly up to 0.6 GPa with a slope of
dT_(c)/dP =  − 12.5 ± 0.2 K/GPa. This value is considerably larger than
the values of −7.8 and −9.7 K/GPa,7 reported for K3C60 and Rb3C60,
respectively. Figure 2 shows unequivocally the larger dT_(c)/dP in
Na2CsC60 than the counterpart on the fcc fullerides. At present, the
compressibility of Na2CsC60 is not known, and thus we cannot derive the
relation between the T_(c) and the lattice constant at the various
applied pressures directly from the present experimental re

Figure 2: Evolution of the superconducting transition temperature T_(c)
determined from χ(T) curves with pressures. The error bars in the
temperature axis represent the scatter of the data for three
measurements.

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of ac magnetic susceptibility curve
χ(T; P) of Na2CsC60 obtained under the indicated pressures.

sults. However, to a first approximation, we can obtain an estimate of
the lattice constant of Na₂CsC₆₀ at elevated pressures by using the
linear compressibility value, −dln a/P (a= lattice constant), of 1.2 x
10⁻² GPa⁻¹, measured for K₃C₆₀.[8] In this way, the lattice constants at
each pressure can be derived. In Fig. 3, the T_(c) is observed at each
pressure are plotted against the lattice constant values, together with
the present high-pressure results on Rb₃C₆₀ and earlier values on
various superconducting M₃C₆₀ (or M_(3 − x)M_(x)^(′)C₆₀) fullerides.[8,
10] It is clearly seen that the relation between T_(c) and the lattice
constant in Na₂CsC₆₀ is markedly different from the one established in
merohedral fcc fullerides. Yet it coincides exactly with the line
obtained at ambient pressure for simple-cubic Na₂CsC₆₀ and Na₂RbC₆₀
(shown by a solid line in Fig. 3).

We believe that this agreement is not fortuitous, although the exact
value of the Na₂CsC₆₀ compressibility is currently unknown. We do not
expect it to be substantially different from the value assumed in the
present study, as can be inferred from several high-pressure studies of
fullerene solids.[15]⁻[18] High-pressure work on pristine C₆₀
established[17] that the compressibility of −dln V/dP = 5.5 x 10⁻² GPa⁻¹
reported earlier[15, 16] was for the simple cubic phase of the
materials. Moreover, Samara _et al._[17] concluded that the
compressibility of the fcc and sc were not too different. More detailed
measurements[19] later established that the compressibility of the fcc
is roughly 30

Originally Na₂RbC₆₀ was assumed to be an "anomalous" fullerene
superconductor, and much effort was spent in an attempt to understand
its behavior, which was thought to provide an important clue for the
mechanism of superconductivity in these systems. The question arises
about whether or not the density of state at the Fermi surface is an
important controlling factor for T_(c). Our present experiments clearly
establish the existence of simple "universal" relation between T_(c) and
interfullerene spacings for _all_ alkali-metal intercalated C₆₀
superconductors; the different structural families characterized by the
different orientational states of the C₆₀³⁻ ions only give rise to
different dT_(c)/da (a= lattice constant) gradients. Thus the
unexpectedly low T_(c) of Na₂RbC₆₀ should result from the much steeper
dependence of N(E_(F)) (and/or electron-phonon coupling V) on the
intermolecular separation in sc than in fcc fullerides. Recent
theoretical calculations by Hamada[20] within the framework of the
tight-binding approximation have shown that indeed N(E_(F)) for a sc
structure is more sensitive to lattice constant variations than for a
fcc structure, entirely consistent with the results of the present
experiments. In addition, the position of Na₂CsC₆₀ on the universal
curve of the fcc fullerides is wholly fortuitous. By taking into account
the tight-binding calculations,[20, 21] which indicate that N(E_(F)) is
higher for a sc structure than for a fcc one, a strong possibility is
then that the fortuitous position of Na₂CsC₆₀ arises from the
compensating effects of a slightly reduced electron-phonon coupling
constant V, originating through the stronger influence of the Na⁺ ions
on the C₆₀ geometry.[14] Recent neutron-inelastic-measurements on
Na₂RbC₆₀ and Na₂CsC₆₀ (Ref. 22) seem to give support for such a
hypothesis, but additional accurate experimental and theoretical studies
of N(E_(F)) and V are certainly needed.

In conclusion, we have unraveled a relationship between the
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) and the lattice constant in
alkali-metal intercalated C₆₀ compounds by applying pressure on the
Na₂CsC₆₀ superconductor having a simple cubic structure (space group
$Pa\,\overline{3}$) at ambient pressure. T_(c) is found to have a
substantially steeper dependence on the lattice constant in a simple
cubic structure when compared with the face centered cubic structure
(space group $Fm\,\overline{3}m$ ) fulleride superconductors. The
present results provide us with two important insights. First, the
intuitive expectation based on a BCS

Figure 3: Evolution of the superconducting transition temperature T_(c)
with the lattice constant of various M₃C₆₀ compounds, including points
provided by pressure works. Filled symbols (⬧ and ▴ for Rb₃C₆₀ and
Na₂CsC₆₀, respectively) are the present pressure data. Open symbols (∘
and ▫ for R₃C₆₀ and Na₂CsC₆₀, respectively) are the pressure data from
Ref. 8, and symbols ◇ are the data on various compounds from Ref. 10.
The solid line is obtained by connecting the data points at ambient
pressure for Na₂RbC₆₀ and Na₂CsC₆₀.

theory that an increased N(E_(F)) leads to higher T_(c)’s still holds
for all alkali-metal intercalated C60 superconducting materials,
including Na2RbC60, which was wrongly thought to be an "anomalous"
compound. We believe that this result will act as an important
ingredient in all models of superconductivity in C60-based materials.
Second, it has been shown unambiguously that the relative orientation of
C60 molecules in the solid does affect sensitively the details of the
electronic structure, as revealed by the existence of the second
"universal" line. This requires explicit consideration of an additional
"new parameter," namely molecular orientation. Simply speaking, we may
view the C60 molecule not just like a "large atom," but like a large
atom with "spin." Then, the C60-based solids should lead to a variety of
physical properties, just by tuning the "spin" orientation.

The authors wish to express their appreciation to Dr. Hamada for
providing the results of his tight-binding calculations prior to
publication. They would also like to thank Dr. S. Saito and Dr. A.
Oshiyama for critical discussion, and Dr. Kubo for arranging the SQUID
measurements. Work at the University of Sussex was supported by the
Science and Engineering Research Council.

## References

* [1] A. F. Hebard, M. J. Rosseinsky, R. C. Haddon, D. W. Murphy, S. H.
Glarum, T. T. M. Palstra, A. P. Ramirez, and A. R. Kortan, Nature
**350**, 600 (1991). * [2] R. C. Haddon _et al._, Nature **350**, 320
(1991). * [3] K. Holczer, O. Klein, S.-M. Huang, R. B. Kaner, K. J. Fu,
R. L. Whetten, and F. Diederich, Science **252**, 1154 (1991). * [4]
See, for example a review article by M. S. Dresselhaus, G. Dresselhaus,
and R. Saito, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature
Superconductors IV_, edited by D. M. Ginserg (World Scientific,
Singapore, 1994) Chap. 2, pp. 471. * [5] K. Tanigaki, T. W. Ebbesen, S.
Saito, J. Mizuki, J. S. Tsai, Y. Shimakawa, Y. Kubo, and S. Kuroshima,
Nature **352**, 222 (1991). * [6] R. M. Fleming _et al._, Nature
**352**, 701 (1991). * [7] G. Sparn, J. D. Thompson, S.-M. Huang, R. B.
Kaner, F. Diederich, R. L. Whetten, G. Gruner, and K. Holczer, Science
**252**, 1829 (1991); G. Sparn _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1228
(1992). * [8] Q. Zhou, G. B. M. Vaughan, Q. Zhu, J. E. Fischer, P. A.
Heinney, N. Coustel, John P. McCauley, Jr., and A. B. Smith III, Science
**255**, 833 (1992). * [9] A. Oshiyama and S. Saito, Solid State Commun.
**82**, 41 (1992). * [10] K. Tanigaki, I. Hirosawa, T. W. Ebbesen, J.
Mizuki, Y. Shimakawa, Y. Kubo, J. S. Tsai, and S. Kuroshima, Nature
**356**, 419 (1992). * [11] M. J. Rosseinsky, D. W. Murphy, R. M.
Fleming, R. Tyeko, A. P. Ramirez, T. Siegrist, G. Dabbagh, and S. E.
Barrett, Nature **356**, 416 (1992). * [12] K. Kniaz, J. E. Fischer, Q.
Zhu, M. J. Rosseinsky, O. Zhou, and D. W. Murphy, Solid State Commun.
**88**, 47 (1993). * [13] P. W. Stephens, L. Mihaly, P. L. Lee, R. L.
Whetten, S.-M. Huang, R. Kaner, F. Deiderich, and K. Holczer, Nature
**351**, 632 (1991). * [14] K. Prassides, C. Christides, I. M. Thomas,
J. Mizuki, K. Tanigaki, I. Hirosawa, and T. W. Ebbesen, Science **263**,
950 (1994). * [15] J. E. Fischer, P. A. Heiney, A. R. McGhie, W. J.
Romanow, A. M. Denenstein, J. P. McCauley, Jr., and A. B. Smith III,
Science **152**, 1288 (1991). * [16] S. J. Duclos, K. Brister, R. C.
Haddon, A. R. Kortan, and F. A. Thiel, Nature **351**, 380 (1991). *
[17] G. A. Samara, J. E. Schirber, B. Morosin, L. V. Hansen, D. Loy, and
A. P. Sylwester, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3136 (1991). * [18] G. A.
Samara, L. V. Hansen, R. A. Assink, B. Morosin, J. E. Schirber, and D.
Loy, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 4756 (1993). * [19] A. Lundin, B. Ssumdqvist,
P. Skoglund, A. Fransson, and S. Pettersson, Solid State Commun. **84**,
879 (1992). * [20] N. Hamada (private communication). * [21] S.
Satpathy, V. P. Antropov, O. K. Andersen, O. Jepsen, O. Gunnarsson, and
A. I. Liechtenstein, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 1773 (1992). * [22] K.
Prassides, C. Christides, J. Mizuki, K. Tanigaki, and I. Hirosawa
(unpublished).
