Complete substitution of Sr for Ca in
Bi₂Sr_(2 + x)Ca_(1 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ)

T. Di Luccio,^(1, 2, •) V. Lukic,¹ S. Oh,¹ L. Maritato,² and J. N.
Eckstein¹

¹Department of Physics, University of Illinois, 1110 W. Green Street,
Urbana, Illinois 61801 ²Dipartimento di Fisica and INFM, Universita di
Salerno, Via S. Allende, Baronissi, 84081 Italy

Received 7 October 2002; published 13 March 2003

###### Abstract

We have systematically substituted Sr for Ca as spacer of the CuO₂
planes in Bi₁Sr_(2 + x)Ca_(1 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) thin films deposited by
molecular beam epitaxy, from x = 0 (2212 phase) to x = 1 (2302 phase).
From dc transport measurements we have found a decrease of _T_(c)_-zero
from 88 K for x = 0 down to 55 K for x = 1. The remarkable result
reported here is the presence of superconductivity when Ca is completely
replaced by Sr. Comparison of structural and transport data shows that
the enlargement of the unit cell due to the substitution has no dramatic
effect on the onset of superconductivity. This result is compared to
previous studies and existing results on bilayer systems.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.67.092504 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **67**, 092504 (2003)

One of the enduring questions surrounding superconductivity in cuprates
is that of the physical dimensionality of the coherent dynamical system
and how this system undergoes a transition to the superconducting state.
While there is a great deal of evidence that macroscopic quasiparticle
transport in the _c_-axis direction is incoherent and of a hopping
nature in the normal state, the role of _c_-axis coupling between planes
in contributing to a pairing mechanism continues to be debated.
Different approaches to the mechanisms of high-_T_(c)_ superconductivity
have been formulated, for example Anderson’s interlayer tunnel theory[1]
and Leggett’s MIR scenario.[2] In both cases the parameters of the
theory are sensitive to the spacing between the planes and this has
motivated several groups to systematically vary this quantity and find
out its role in determining the transition temperature.

The intramultilayer (IML) distance in cuprates, i.e., the distance
between two CuO₂ planes in the same half unit cell, has been changed
either by intercalation, pressure or by making artificial
superlattices.[3, 4] Besides YBCO-based compounds,[5, 6] all other HTS
multilayered materials undergo the superconducting transition only if
the spacing ion is Ca. Partial substitution of Ca was performed,
sometimes by rare earths,[7, 8] inevitably inducing disorder and valence
change. Following the general idea of changing as few experimental
parameters as possible, substitution of Ca by alkali earths is
particularly interesting. However, so far no samples are known to be
superconducting with Ca _fully_ substituted by other alkali earths.
Previous work has investigated Sr substitution of the nominal Ca layer
in two layer cuprates. Sleigh _et al._ substituted Sr for Ca in
Bi₂Sr_(3 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) (Ref. 9) and Sr for Y in
Bi₁Sr_(3 − x)Y_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) (Refs. 10 and 11) single crystals. In the
case of Bi₂Sr_(3 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) the onset of _T_(c)_ remains
almost the same (95 K) in the range x = 0.4−0.9. A different behavior is
found in Bi₂Sr_(3 − x)Y_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) samples, where superconductivity
is restricted to the interval x = 0.2−0.4 with a variation of _T_(c)_ of
7 K, presumably due to carrier doping. For x = 0.5−1 a semiconducting
temperature dependence of the resistance was observed. The c axis
decreased by 0.6 A from x = 0.3 to 1, which as we show is large compared
to we observe in our Bi₂Sr_(2 + x)Ca_(1 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) films (Fig. 1).
The substitution of Y³⁺ for Sr²⁺ or Ca²⁺ involves also a change in the
valence that would need to be balanced by the introduction of oxygen in
the Bi-O sheets, if the average carrier doping is to remain
unchanged.[9]

The hypothesis of extra-oxygen inclusion in the structure when Ca is
substituted by Sr has been also considered by Shaked _et al.[12]_ in
La_(1.8)Sr_(x)Ca_(1 − x)Cu₂O_(6 − δ) (LSCCO) samples. The unit cell of
this compound contains two CuO₂ planes, nominally separated by Ca,
representing in this sense an analog of
Bi₂Sr_(2 + x)Ca_(1 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ). Neutron diffraction experiments
proved that in La_(1.8)Sr_(x)Ca_(1 − x)Cu₂O_(6 − δ) there is oxygen
intercalation in the metal plane separating the CuO₂ sheets and a
comparable occupation probability of the Ca²⁺ site by Sr²⁺ and La³⁺
ions. The overall effect of the substitution of Sr for Ca on the
superconducting properties of these samples is that the _T_(c)_
decreases from about 60K (no Sr in the structure) to zero (no Ca in the
structure). When Sr is substituted for Ca, the structure of the unit
cell is expected to change as a consequence of the larger ionic radius
of Sr²⁺ as compared to Ca²⁺ (1.26 A vs 1.12 A in eightfold
coordination[13]). A size effect was indeed observed in
La_(1.8)Sr_(x)Ca_(1.2 − x)Cu₂O_(6 − δ) as a linear increase in the c
axis of

Figure 1: _c_-axis dependence on the extra Sr x of
Bi₂Sr_(2 + x)Ca_(1 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) thin films as measured by XRD. The
unit cell expands linearly by Δ_c_ = 0.19 Å from 2212 to 2302 phases.

about 0.40 A from the sample with x = 0 to the sample with x = 0.8. This
_c_-axis variation is too big to be due only to different ionic radii of
Sr and Ca. The inclusion of oxygen between the copper oxide planes could
be related to increased available space after Sr substitution as well as
to enhanced electrostatic attraction because of La3+ at the Ca2+ site.

In order to clarify the effect of substitution of the CuO₂ planes spacer
in bilayer systems, we have replaced Sr for Ca inside the unit cell of
thin films of double-layer BSCCO (Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+_d_) with the intent to
study the effect on the structural and electronic properties. It is our
belief that by making substitution of Ca for Sr, the most obvious, and
hopefully the most important difference between these two ions is that
of their size, and that no important changes in details of band
structure or dielectric constant are induced (as both Ca2+ and Sr2+ are
closed shell ions with low polarizability). In this paper we report
results of experiments in which thin films of Bi2Sr2+,Ca1-_x_Cu2O8+_d_
are grown with x ranging from 0 to 1 using atomic layer-by-layer
molecular beam epitaxy (ALL-MBE). When x > 0.8 the compound is
apparently thermodynamically unstable and can not be synthesized using
equilibrium techniques.11 By using atomic layering of each molecular
layer, it is possible to grow samples of compositions that are otherwise
impossible to obtain.14 We find that a new superconducting phase 2302
(corresponding to x = 1) of BSCCO family can be artificially grown. The
substitution of Sr on the Ca site in BSCCO-2212 slightly increases the
spacing between the CuO₂ planes within each molecular layer.

Single crystal Bi2Sr2+,Ca1-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ thin films with x = 0, 0.08,
0.2, 0.4, 0.65, and 1 were grown by ALL-MBE, all using the same
optimized growth conditions. The details of the system deposition are
described elsewhere.14 We deposited 40 monolayers of
Bi2Sr2+,Ca1-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ on top of two monolayers of 2201 phase which
serve as a buffer layer on top of the SrTiO3 substrate, for a total
thickness of about 600 A for all the samples. The oxidation was obtained
using a beam of pure ozone and the growth pressure was kept at a value
of 8 x 10-6 Torr, while the substrate was heated to a temperature of
720-730 degC, as measured by an optical pyrometer. A quartz crystal
monitor and atomic absorption spectroscopy were used to monitor the
atomic fluxes. In particular, the atomic absorption spectroscopy is fast
enough to be used for feedback control of the shuttering times during
the growth and the reproducibility is well within 1

The dependence of the formula unit _c_-axis lattice constant on Sr
substitution is shown in Fig. 1. We find a linear increase of the
_c_-axis lattice constant as the Sr content in our films increases, as
measured from the (0010) diffraction peak in 2 θ − ω scans. The c axis
varies by 1.2

Figure 2 shows the resistance vs temperature curves _R_(_T_) of the
samples. The first important observation is that the
Bi2Sr2+,Ca1-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ films are all superconducting. In contrast to
Ref. 12 we find superconductivity even when Ca is completely replaced by
Sr as the spacer between the CuO₂ planes obtaining a new superconducting
phase in BSCCO family compounds, the 2302 phase, in correspondence with
x = 1. The difficulty in obtaining 2302 by just thermodynamic
processes11 has been overcome by using non-thermodynamic, kinetically
controlled growth typical of molecular beam epitaxy. The T zero of the
new superconducting phase is about 55 K. This value is lower than in
2212, but still higher than in the single layer compound [38 K (Ref.
16)].

The dependence of transport properties on x is more clearly evident from
Fig. 3. In this figure three critical temperatures, chosen at different
points of the _R_(_T_) curves reported in Fig. 2, are plotted as a
function of extra Sr. For each composition the top point is the onset
temperature

Figure 2: Resistance vs temperature curves of Bi2Sr2+,Ca1−_x_Cu2O8−_d_
with x = 0 −1. A complete superconducting transition (zero resistance)
is observed in all the films, included the 2302 sample.

T_(c)-onset, defined as the intercept of the normal curve above the
transition and the slope during the transition. The next temperature is
T_(c)-mid, corresponding to the midpoint of the transition where the
resistance value at the onset halves. The third line is T_(c)-zero, the
temperature where the resistance is zero within the experimental
detection limit. T_(c)-zero does not reduce very much from the 2212
sample (88.4 K at x = 0) to 40

The superconducting properties can be influenced by several factors.
First of all, disorder. Some level of disorder is present also in our
films for x = 0.65 and 1, as is evident from the broadening of the R(T)
curves of Fig. 2. For the same samples, the RHEED patterns and the
broadening of XRD rocking curves confirm an increase of disorder which
reduces the flatness of the half unit cell interfaces. Nevertheless,
this kind of disorder is not great enough to destroy superconductivity.
It reduces T_(c)-zero, but the resistive onset is not influenced.

In the case of La_(1.8)Sr_(x)Ca_(1.2 − x)Cu₂O_(6 − δ), the drastic
decrease of T_(c)-onset down to zero has been attributed to the presence
of oxygen in the Ca-substituted layer. This site is usually not occupied
when Ca is the spacer, but a non-zero occupancy of 15

As an example of how the IML distance d can affect the critical
temperature, we have used Leggett’s MIR scenario [2] to obtain a
quantitative prediction of the expected decrease of the onset
temperature T_(c) according with the expression

$$\Delta T_{c}^{(2)}\!=\!-\frac{\Delta d}{d}[T_{c}^{(2)}(d)\!-\!T_{c}^{(1)}(d)\,].$$
(1)

Δd represents the change of the IML distance d, T_(c)⁽²⁾ and T_(c)⁽¹⁾
are respectively the transition temperatures of the bilayer (2212) and
single layer (2201) compounds in the same series. In our films taking
T_(c)⁽¹⁾ = 38 K, d = 3.2 A, [17] and other quantities from our
experiments (T_(c)⁽²⁾ = T_(c) onset=96 K for pure Ca-based compound, and
Δd = 0.19 A for Sr-based one) we obtain ΔT_(c)⁽²⁾ of − 3.4 K. This value
is probably an upper limit on the T_(c) depression for two reasons.
First of all, Bi-2201 is not a very good single layer HTS (as Tl- and
Hg-ones), and therefore the difference (T_(c)⁽²⁾ − T_(c)⁽¹⁾) amplifies
changes in the plane spacing. Second, any increase in polarizability of
the spacer has been neglected, but in principle it would lead to small
changes in the background screening properties. [2] The expansion of
relevant quantities in d around Bi-2212 value inevitably leads to a
small variation (decrease) of T_(c) with the values of Δd observed in
our experiments.

It is interesting that MIR offers an explanation of suppression of T_(c)
in the experiment of Shaked _et al._ According to (1), the variation of
T_(c) in this case should be ΔT_(c)⁽²⁾ = − 1 K. However, observed oxygen
impurities were positioned between the Cu atoms in two adjacent planes,
at a O-Cu distance not too different from the in-plane one. It has been
conjectured that the nature of the O-Cu vertical bond is the same as the
in-plane bond, and that the oxygen effectively acts as easy tunneling
center between the planes, thus heavily suppressing T_(c). [18]

An alternative explanation of the loss of superconductivity in
La_(1.8)Sr_(x)Ca_(1.2 − x)Cu₂O_(6 − δ) could be attributed to in-plane
oxygen vacancies. [20] In fact, Shaked _et al._ revealed their presence
up to 12

Figure 3: Three temperatures corresponding to different points of the
R(T) curves reported in Fig. 2 are plotted vs extra Sr x: T_(c) onset,
T_(c) mid (the midpoint of the transition), and T_(c) zero. Shaked _et
al._’s data are also reported as a comparison.

In conclusion, the main result we have reported in this paper is the
presence of superconductivity when the spacer of the CuO₂ planes is Sr
and not Ca. We obtained this result in
Bi₂Sr_(2 + x)Ca_(1 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) thin films grown by ALL-MBE. T_(c)
zero is observed to decrease from 88 K in the sample with x = 0 (2212
phase) down to 55 K when x = 1, corresponding to an artificially
synthesized superconducting phase. The Sr substitution apparently does
not change the onset of the superconducting phase transition. We
measured an increase of c-axis by 1.2

This work was supported by the University of Salerno, INFM, CNR, and NSF
(DMR-99-72087, DMR-99-86199). The authors thank the CMM at UIUC for the
use of RBS, AFM, and XRD facilities. A particular acknowledgment is due
to A. J. Leggett, for important theoretical guidelines during this work.
T.D.L. wishes to thank Bruce A. Davidson, for constant and precious
suggestions and Mauro R. Sardela for his support on XRD measurements and
data interpretation.

## References

* [a]Corresponding author. Present address: ENEA, S.S. 7 Km 714,
Brindsi, 72100, Italy. Fax: +39-0831-507656. Email address:
tiziana.diluccio@brindisi.enea.it * [2] P.W. Anderson, _The Theory of
Superconductivity in the High-T_(c) Cuprate Superconductors_ (Princeton
University Press, Princeton, 1997); P.W. Anderson, Science **279**, 1196
(1998). * [3] A.J. Leggett, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **59**, 1729 (1998);
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. **96**, 8365 (1999); Phys. Rev. Lett.
**83**, 392 (1999). * [4] A. Yugens, D. Winkler, T. Claeson, T.
Murayama, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 3148 (1999). * [5] T.
Tamegai, K. Koga, K. Suzuki, M. Ichihara, F. Sakai, and Y. Iye, Jpn. J.
Appl. Phys. **28**, L112 (1989). * [6] J.M. Tarascon, L.H. Green, B.G.
Bagley, W.R. McKinnon, P. Barboux, and G.W. Hull, in _Proceedings of the
International Workshop on Novel Mechanism of Superconductivity_,
_Berkley_, edited by S.A. Wolf and V.Z. Kresin (Plenum, New York, 1987),
p. 705. * [7] F. Licci, A. Gauzzi, M. Marezio, G.P. Radaelli, R. Masini,
and C. Chaillout-Bougerol, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 15 208 (1998). * [8]
V.P.S. Awana, S.K. Agarwal, R. Ray, S. Gupta, and A.V. Narkilar, Physica
C **191**, 43 (1992). * [9] R. Yoshizaki, J. Fujikami, T. Ishigaki, and
H. Asano, Physica C **171**, 315 (1990). * [10] M.A. Subramanian, C.C.
Torardi, J.C. Calabrese, J. Golapakrishnan, K.J. Morrisey, T.R. Askew,
R.B. Flippen, U. Chowdhry, and A.W. Sleight, Science **239**, 1015
(1988). * [11] C.C. Torardi, J.B. Parise, M.A. Subramanian, J.
Golapakrishnan, and A.W. Sleight, Physica C **157**, 115 (1989). * [12]
M.A. Subramanian, A.R. Strzelecki, J. Golapakrishnan, and A.W. Sleight,
J. Solid State Chem. **77**, 196 (1988). * [13] H. Shaked, J.D.
Jorgensen, B.A. Hunter, R.L. Hitterman, K. Kinoshita, F. Izumi, and T.
Kamiyama, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 12 941 (1993). * [14] R.D. Shannon, Acta
Crystallogr. Sect. A: Cryst. Phys., Diffr., Theor. Gen. Crystallogr.
**32**, 751 (1976). * [15] J.N. Eckstein and I. Bozovic, Annu. Rev.
Mater. Sci. **25**, 679 (1995). * [16] M.E. Klausmeier-Brown, J.N.
Eckstein, I. Bozovic, and G.F. Virshup, Appl. Phys. Lett. **60**, 657
(1992). * [17] S. Ono, Y. Ando, T. Murayama, F.F. Balakirev, J.B. Betts,
and G.S. Boebinger, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 638 (2000). * [18]_Physical
Properties of High Temperature superconductors II_, edited by D.M.
Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1990). * [19] A.J. Leggett
(private communication). * [20] S. Horiuchi and E. Takayama-Muromachi,
in _Bismuth-Based High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by H. Maeda
and K. Togano (M. Dekker, New York, 1996). * [21] S.K. Tolpygo, J.-Y.
Lin, M. Gurvitch, S.Y. Hou, and J.M. Phillips, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 12
462 (1996). * [22] J.P. Attfield, A.L. Kharlanov, and J.A. McAllister,
Nature (London) **394**, 157 (1998).
