Evidence of a structural quantum critical point in
(Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ from a lattice dynamics study

Y. W. Cheung, Y. J. Hu, M. Imai, Y. Tanioku, H. Kanagawa, J. Murakawa,
K. Moriyama, W. Zhang, K. T. Lai, K. Yoshimura, F. M. Grosche, K.
Kaneko, S. Tsutsui, and Swee K. Goh

kkgoh@phy.cuhk.edu.hk Department of Physics, The Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong, China

2Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University,
Kyoto 606-8502, Japan

3Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, J. J. Thomson Avenue,
Cambridge CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

4Materials Sciences Research Center, Japan Atomic Energy Agency, Tokai,
Naka, Ibaraki 319-1195, Japan

5Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute (JASRI), SPring-8, Sayo,
Hyogo 679-5198, Japan

6Shenzhen Research Institute, The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong, China

###### Abstract

Approaching a quantum critical point (QCP) has been an effective route
to stabilize superconductivity. While the role of magnetic QCPs has been
extensively discussed, similar exploration of a structural QCP is scarce
due to the lack of suitable systems with a continuous structural
transition that can be conveniently tuned to 0 K. Using inelastic x-ray
scattering, we examine the phonon spectrum of the nonmagnetic
quasiskutterudite (Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, which represents a
precious system to explore the interplay between structural
instabilities and superconductivity by tuning the Ca concentration x. We
unambiguously detect the softening of phonon modes around the **M**
point on cooling towards the structural transition. Intriguingly, at
x = 0.85, the soft mode energy squared at the **M** point extrapolates
to zero at (−5.7 ± 7.7) K, providing the first compelling microscopic
evidence of a structural QCP in (Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. The enhanced
phonon density of states at low energy provides the essential ingredient
for realizing strong-coupling superconductivity near the structural QCP.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.98.161103

The emergence of superconductivity near a quantum critical point has
inspired intensive research on the role of quantum fluctuations on
stabilizing new phases. While the temperature-tuning parameter phase
diagrams constructed for a wide range of superconductors share
qualitative similarity [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6], the pairing mechanism highly
depends on the type of the quantum critical point (QCP). The magnetic
QCP, for example, is generally believed to be related to the surrounding
unconventional superconducting state, where the pairing may not be
mediated by phonons [7, 8]. To find out if quantum fluctuations from
other types of QCP can enhance superconductivity, the identification of
QCPs associated with a nonmagnetic transition–and the search of
superconductivity in the vicinity–is an important topic in correlated
electron research.

Approaching structural instabilities has been another promising route to
enhance superconductivity. This concept has been applied to materials
such as A15 compounds [9, 10, 11], cuprates [12, 13, 14], perovskites
[15], transition metal dichalcogenides [16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21], and Ni-
and Fe-based superconductors [22, 23, 24, 25, 26]. However, contrary to
the magnetic counterpart, clear examples of a QCP resulting solely from
a tunable structural phase transition are rare, thereby hampering a
systematic study of structural quantum criticality and its influence on
superconductivity. Recently, the existence of the structural QCP (SQCP)
has been suggested in LaCu_(6 − x)Au_(x)[27] and ScF₃[28], although
superconductivity has not been observed near the SQCP in the former
compound, and the latter compound is an insulator.

The nonmagnetic quasiskutterudite superconductors
(Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ and (Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ have recently
been identified as promising systems for realizing a SQCP. The end
compound Sr₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, with a space group of $Pm\bar{3}n$ at room
temperature [29], undergoes a second-order structural transition to
$I\bar{4}3d$ at T^(*) = 138 K and a superconducting transition at
T_(c) = 4.2 K [30, 31, 32, 33, 34]. With an increasing Ca fraction x,
which introduces chemical pressure, T^(*) decreases linearly and
extrapolates to 0 K at x ≈ 0.9[30, 31, 35], while T_(c) takes a
dome-shaped dependence with a maximum value of 8.9 K. At x = 0.9, the
coupling strength is found to be dramatically enhanced
(2Δ_(sc)/k_(B)T_(c) = 6.36), and a distinct linear-in-T resistivity was
detected from T_(c) to ∼40 K, accompanied by a 33

Nevertheless, microscopic evidence for the existence of a SQCP has thus
far been missing. The feature associated with the structural transition
in a range of experimental probes is weakened when approaching the
putative SQCP. In (Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ with x = 0.75, which is
still quite far away from the SQCP, the structural transition can no
longer be identified in specific heat [31], and only a weak feature can
be discerned in electrical resistivity [30]. Indeed, for structural
transition in a metallic system, it seems to be a common issue that it
is difficult to identify the transition when tuning towards the SQCP.
Examples include Lu(Pt1-xPd_t_)2In [6] and 2_H_-NbSe2 [38] which have
structural transitions driven by charge-density-wave instability. This
would raise questions on the nature of the lattice dynamics close to the
SQCP.

In this Rapid Communication, we investigate the lattice dynamics in
(Ca_x_Sr1-x_)3Rh4Sn13 with four calcium concentrations using inelastic
x-ray scattering (IXS). We discover that, at x = 0.85, the soft mode
energy squared at the **M** point extrapolates to zero at (−5.7 ± 7.7)
K. Thus, the collapse of an energy scale is detected, providing
microscopic evidence for the existence of a SQCP in this series. Our
data offer a natural explanation for the observation of low
$\Theta_{\rm D}$ and the strong-coupling superconductivity in the
vicinity of x = 0.9.

Single crystals of (Ca_x_Sr1-x_)3Rh4Sn13 were obtained by the Sn flux
method as described in Ref. [40]. IXS was performed at BL35XU of
SPring-8 in Japan. Further details of the experimental setup and the
analysis of the IXS spectra are provided in the Supplemental Material
[39].

To understand the evolution of the phonon modes, we first examine
Ca3Rh4Sn13 (_x_ = 1) at 300 K. In Ca3Rh4Sn13, the room temperature
_Pm3n_ cubic structure remains stable down to the lowest temperature
[30, 31]. Hence, Ca3Rh4Sn13 at 300 K is far away from structural
instability and the phonon structure serves as an important benchmark.
Figures 1(a) and 1(b) show representative constant-**Q** scans at **Q**
= (6.50 6.50 1.00) and (6.35 6.36 1.04) for Ca3Rh4Sn13 at 300 K. As
shown in both figures, we successfully resolve the elastic peak and four
independent inelastic peaks below 15 meV. The inclusion of the peaks
coming from the anti-Stokes process improves the reliability of the fit.
The inelastic peaks thus resolved are plotted as individual Lorentzian
peaks, with the center corresponding to phonon mode energies [39].

The complex unit cell, with 40 atoms in each structural unit, gives a
large number of phonon branches. We find that the peaks contributed by
phonons with energy higher than ∼8 meV highly overlap in energy space
within our resolution. However, the main purpose here is to track the
evolution of low-energy excitations, and hence a complete resolution of
high energy modes is beyond the scope of the present study. By plotting
the energies of the two peaks with lowest energies along the **G**-**M**
direction, as shown in Fig. 1(c), we identify them as two optical
branches. After overlaying the dispersions at 300 K for x = 0.75 and x =
0.5 (C1) on the same graph, it is immediately clear that they all share
the same optical branches below 8 meV, indicating that these branches
are not sensitive to chemical pressure. In the constant-**Q** scans near
**G**, x = 0.75 and x = 0.5 (C1) show extra but weak intensities at low
energy transfer, which can be attributed to acoustic branches.

Next, we investigate the lattice dynamics on approaching structural
instabilities. Previous density functional theory calculations for
Sr3Rh4Sn13 and Sr3Ir4Sn13 [30, 41] suggest that the phonon instability
is located at the **M** point. Subsequently, softening of the phonon
mode at **M** was observed by inelastic neutron scattering in Ca3Ir4Sn13
[42]. In light of these results, we conduct a series of IXS measurements
on (Ca_x_Sr1-x_)3Rh4Sn13 with four calcium contents to probe the phonon
structure at **M**. Figure 2 shows the resultant spectra in x = 0 and
0.75. Similar data for x = 0.5 (C2) and x = 0.85 can be found in the
Supplemental Material [39]. Due to the

Figure 2: Constant-**Q** scans at the **M** point with temperatures
above the structural transition temperature in (a) x = 0 and (b) x =
0.75. The blue dashed lines represent the soft phonon mode responsible
for the structural transition. For clarity, only the two peaks with the
lowest energies are shown.

Figure 1: Room temperature IXS data showing intensity against energy
transfer for x = 1 at (a) **Q** = (6.50 6.50 1.00) and (b) (6.35 6.36
1.04). Data are shown by crosses with vertical error bars. The black
solid lines are the fits described in the Supplemental Material [39].
(c) Dispersion relations showing the phonon modes with energies lower
than 8 meV for various calcium contents. For x = 1, these are the modes
displayed as dotted lines in (a) and (b). The dotted lines in (c) are
guides for eyes.

presence of the elastic peak, the peak contributed by the soft mode may
be masked near zero energy. With this in mind, we performed measurements
covering a wide temperature range. From the decomposition of the total
intensity, we can recognize a peak, plotted using green dotted lines, at
∼5 meV in all spectra. Therefore, this peak is not sensitive to
temperature, despite the fact that the temperature has been varied by a
large amount. In fact, this is the same peak that already exists far
away from structural instabilities, as discussed above.

Close inspection of the spectra in Fig. 2 reveals the existence of
another low-energy excitation, represented by the peak in the blue
dashed line. In x = 0.75, for instance, this mode has an energy of 3.0
meV at 130 K, as indicated by the vertical arrow. With cooling, the mode
energy decreases rapidly and reaches 1.2 meV at 35 K. This is in stark
contrast to the peak in the green dotted line, which exhibits no
temperature dependence. For x = 0.75, it has been established via
electrical resistivity that T^(*) ≈ 28 K [30]. Therefore, the softening
of this mode on cooling confirms its relevance to structural transition.

The energy squared of this soft mode (E_(soft)²) in x = 0.75 is plotted
against temperature in Fig. 3(f), along with similar data obtained in
x = 0, 0.5 and 0.85 [see Figs. 3(b), 3(d) and 3(h)]. The lowest energy
mode for each composition, denoted by open symbols, is determined by the
analysis of the corresponding dispersion relation along Γ − M − Γ as
discussed below, so that complications due to the presence of the
elastic peak can be eliminated. From Figs. 3(b), 3(d) 3(f), and 3(h), we
conclude that E_(soft)² ∝ T for all compositions. The proportionality
factor, which determines how rapidly the relevant phonon mode softens,
is not a strong function of x. The temperature at which E_(soft)²
extrapolates to zero is defined as T^(*). The values of T^(*) obtained
are plotted against the nominal calcium concentration in Fig. 3(i),
showing an excellent agreement with the phase diagram constructed
earlier using resistivity [30] and specific heat [31] data. In x = 0, we
additionally confirmed the recovery of the soft mode below T^(*): The
soft mode hardens again and reaches 2.4 meV at 70 K, which is ∼60 K
below T^(*), as shown in the Supplemental Material [39]. These results
are fully consistent with the expectation from the Landau theory for a
second-order structural transition where E_(soft)² plays the role of the
inverse susceptibility [43] and confirm that the transition is driven by
this particular phonon mode. Intriguingly, for x = 0.85, E_(soft)²
extrapolates to zero at (−5.7 ± 7.7) K, thereby establishing this
composition to be at, or very close to, the SQCP. Thus, our IXS data
provide compelling microscopic evidence for the existence of a SQCP in
the phase diagram of (Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃.

For all samples studied, we additionally performed x-ray diffraction
measurements at M to probe the superlattice intensity using the same
spectrometer. The temperature dependence of the superlattice intensity
at M is shown in Figs. 3(a), 3(c) 3(e), and 3(g). A rapid growth of the
superlattice intensity occurs near T^(*), where E_(soft)² → 0. This
reinforces the view that the phonon mode softening is intimately linked
to the structural transition. In x = 0.75, the superlattice intensity
begins to grow at ∼30 K, which is slightly higher than T^(*) determined
from the analysis of E_(soft)²(T) of the soft mode. However, the
superlattice intensity is weak in x = 0.75 and the growth is rather
slow. Further studies with a diffractometer (instead of a spectrometer)
is highly desirable. In x = 0.85, we did not detect the growth of the
superlattice intensity down to 7 K, the base temperature of our setup,
again consistent with the measured E_(soft)²(T).

In order to understand how structural instabilities affect the low
energy excitations, we examine the phonon modes around the M point. As
the intensity of the modes around M is weak compared with the higher
energy modes, we have performed IXS measurements at Q = (6 + h 6 + h 1)
and (6 + h 7 − h 1), where h = 0.5 corresponds to the M point.
Representative IXS spectra can be found in the Supplemental Material
[39]. IXS scans in (6 + h 6 + h 1) and (6 + h 7 − h 1) will
predominantly measure modes with a longitudinal and transverse
component, respectively. Figures 4(a) and 4(b) show the dispersion of
x = 0 and x = 0.85 around M, respectively, each at two chosen
temperatures above T^(*). Similar data for x = 0.5 (C2) and x = 0.75 are
shown in Supplemental Material [39]. Observation of soft modes confirms
the existence of lattice instability at M. The softening of the phonon
modes is broadly distributed in momentum space, in contrast to a sharp
Kohn anomaly caused by Fermi surface nesting in low-dimensional
charge-density-wave systems [44]. The dispersion relations above T^(*)
can be fitted by

$$E(q^{\prime})=\sqrt{c^{2}q^{\prime 2}+\Delta^{2}},$$
(1)

where q^(′) is the wave vector measured from M and Δ is the energy of
the soft mode at M. As there is no significant

Figure 3: Intensity of the superlattice reflection and energy squared of
the soft mode against temperature in (a),(b) x = 0; (c),(d) x = 0.5;
(e),(f) x = 0.75; (g),(h) x = 0.85. Two x = 0.5 crystals (C1 and C2)
were measured, showing a small difference, which can be attributed to a
slight variation in the actual calcium content. For (b),(d),(f), and
(h), closed symbols are extracted by fitting the IXS spectra with Eq.
(S1); open symbols are determined by fitting the dispersion relations
with Eq. (1). The dotted lines are the linear fit of the data, and the
vertical dashed lines mark the T^(*). (i) Phase diagram of
(Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. The polygons represent T^(*) obtained from
IXS data, defined as the temperature where the energy squared of the
soft mode extrapolated to 0 K. Small circles and crosses are data from
specific heat and electrical resistivity in Ref. [31,30], respectively.

difference between the two dispersions in both directions, data in both
directions are fitted by a single curve. The fitted values of Δ² for the
lower temperature branches are shown as open symbols in Figs. 3(b), 3(d)
3(f), and 3(h).

In x = 0, which is far from the SQCP, the soft phonon mode has
significantly hardened by the time superconductivity sets in [39].
Therefore, $2\Delta_{\rm ac}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ and ΔC/γT_(c) both take
the BCS weak coupling values, and T_(c) is lower. At the SQCP, the soft
mode at M only softens near the zero temperature, thereby contributing
to the large ∼T³ specific heat at low temperatures, strong-coupling
superconductivity, and a higher T_(c)[31]. Furthermore, the observed
linear-in-T resistivity [30] can be naturally interpreted as the result
of scattering off the low-lying phonon modes. To investigate the role of
the ∼5 meV branch mentioned earlier, we also track this particular
branch below T^(*) for x = 0[39]. This branch exists below T^(*) as
well, and it is still temperature insensitive. Hence, this branch
appears to be very robust across a wide temperature and composition
range, and it is not relevant to the structural transition or the
enhancement of superconductivity upon Ca tuning. Thus, strong-coupling
superconductivity and structural transition are driven by the same soft
phonon mode in (Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃.

Recently, strong-coupling superconductivity and linear-in-T resistivity
were also reported in Bi-III, which has an incommensurate host-guest
structure, accompanied by "built-in" phason modes [45]. Thus, Bi-III and
(Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ share an important similarity in that both
systems feature a large phonon density of states at low energy that
facilitates the formation of strong-coupling superconductivity, despite
the different mechanisms of generating these low-lying modes.

The IXS data reported here provide key spectroscopic evidence for the
collapse of an energy scale when the second-order phase transition
temperature is tuned to 0 K. Therefore, (Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃
provides another example in which the principle of quantum criticality
can guide the search of superconductivity or the optimization of
superconducting properties. Note that quantum critical behavior
associated with structural transition has also been studied in
ferroelectric materials [46, 47] which are insulators and have net
dipole moment given by the softening of a zone-center mode. In
SrTiO³ ⁻ ⁴, oxygen vacancies introduce charge carriers and induce
superconductivity for small δ. Through the substitution of Sr by Ca, a
ferroelectriclike quantum phase transition would take place at finite δ,
where superconductivity is enhanced [48]. Therefore,
Sr_(1 − x)Ca_(x)TiO_(3 − δ) emerges as an important paradigm to explore
the interplay between the ferroelectric-like structural distortion and
superconductivity. It would be interesting to follow the lattice
dynamics of Sr_(1 − x)Ca_(x)TiO_(3 − δ) across the quantum phase
transition and compare the resultant phonon structure with the present
study. In addition to superconductivity, it is important to point out
that other interesting phenomena have been observed when one looks
closer to the zero temperature instability. For instance, near a
ferromagnetic quantum phase transition, the character of the phase
transition is often discontinuous, raising the hotly debated question if
a ferromagnetic QCP can ever be realized [49]. With the notion of
structural quantum criticality established in
(Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, further explorations in the vicinity of the
SQCP are highly desirable.

In summary, we have probed the lattice dynamics in
(Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ with IXS measurements. Far away from
structural instabilities, there are low-lying phonon branches with weak
dispersion at ∼5-8 meV with no obvious dependence on temperature and
chemical pressure. However, our data reveal another phonon branch which
is more dispersive and exhibits strong dependence on temperature and
chemical pressure. In particular, in x = 0, 0.5, and 0.75, we found that
the soft phonon mode at M can be completely softened close to the
temperature where the superlattice intensity begins to grow, signifying
its relevance to structural instabilities. For x = 0.85, the energy
squared of this phonon mode extrapolates to zero at (−5.7 ± 7.7) K,
indicating that the composition is located very close to or at the SQCP.
The analysis of the dispersion relation around M reveals the existence
of low-lying phonon modes, which offers a natural explanation for the
low Debye temperature, the maximized $T_{\rm c}$, as well as the
enhanced electron-phonon coupling strength near the SQCP. Therefore,
(Ca_(x)Sr_(1 − x))₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ is a rare quantum critical system in which
manifestations of phonon softening on electronic, thermal, and
superconducting properties can be investigated systematically.

The authors acknowledge Xiaoye Chen and Youichi Yanase for helpful
discussions, and Hiroshi Uchiyama for experimental assistance for one of
the beamtimes. This experiment was carried out under the approval of
JASRI (Proposal No. 2013B1095, No. 2015B1294, No. 2016A1160, No.
2017A1130, No. 2017B1228 and No. 2018A1399). This work was financially
supported by Research Grants Council of Hong Kong (ECS/24300214,
GRF/14300117), CUHK Direct Grant (No. 4053223), CUHK Startup (No.
4930048), National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 11504310),
and Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research from MEXT of Japan (No.
16H04131, No. 15H03697, No. 16K05031).

Figure 4: The dispersion relations in (a) x = 0, and (b) x = 0.85
measured around Q = (6.5 6.5 1). Closed and open symbols represent data
at Q = (6 + h 6 + h 1) and (6 + h 7 − h 1), respectively. The dispersion
relations are analyzed using Eq. (1).

* [1] N. D. Mathur, F. M. Grosche, S. R. Julian, I. R. Walker, D. M.
Freye, R. K. W. Haselwimmer, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London)
**394**, 39 (1998). * [2] E. Slooten, T. Naka, A. Gasparini, Y. K.
Huang, and A. de Visser, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 097003 (2009). * [3]
P. Gegenwart, Q. Si, and F. Steglich, Nat. Phys. **4**, 186 (2008). *
[4] J. Paglione and R. L. Greene, Nat. Phys. **6**, 645 (2010). * [5] T.
Shibauchi, A. Carrington, and Y. Matsuda, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter
Phys. **5**, 113 (2014). * [6] T. Gruner, D. Jang, Z. Huegges, R.
Cardoso-Gil, G. H. Fecher, M. M. Koza, O. Stockert, A. P. Mackenzie, M.
Brando, and C. Geibel, Nat. Phys. **13**, 967 (2017). * [7] D. J.
Scalapino, Rev. Mod. Phys. **84**, 1383 (2012). * [8] P. Monthoux, D.
Pines, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **450**, 1177 (2007). * [9]
C. W. Chu and L. R. Testardi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **32**, 766 (1974). *
[10] C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **33**, 1283 (1974). * [11] L. R.
Testardi, Rev. Mod. Phys. **47**, 637 (1975). * [12] A. Bussmann-Holder
and A. R. Bishop, Z. Phys. B **86**, 183 (1992). * [13] R. J. Birgeneau,
C. Y. Chen, D. R. Gabbe, H. P. Jenssen, M. A. Kastner, C. J. Peters, P.
J. Picone, T. Thio, T. R. Thurston, H. L. Tuller, J. D. Axe, P. Boni,
and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 1329 (1987). * [14] S.
Wakimoto, S. Lee, P. M. Gehring, R. J. Birgeneau, and G. Shirane, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **73**, 3413 (2004). * [15] H. Kang, Y. Lee, J. Lynn, S.
Shiryaev, and S. Barilo, Physica C **471**, 303 (2011). * [16] J. J.
Yang, Y. J. Choi, Y. S. Oh, A. Hogan, Y. Horibe, K. Kim, B. I. Min, and
S.-W. Cheong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 116402 (2012). * [17] S. Pyon,
K. Kudo, and M. Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 053701 (2012). * [18]
A. F. Fang, G. Xu, T. Dong, P. Zheng, and N. L. Wang, Sci. Rep. **3**,
1153 (2013). * [19] M. Kamitani, H. Sakai, Y. Tokura, and S. Ishiwata,
Phys. Rev. B **94**, 134507 (2016). * [20] K. Kudo, H. Ishii, and M.
Nohara, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 140505 (2016). * [21] C. Heil, S. Ponce, H.
Lambert, M. Schlipf, E. R. Margine, and F. Giustino, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**119**, 087003 (2017). * [22] C. de la Cruz, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, J.
Li, W. Ratcliff, II, J. L. Zarestky, H. A. Mook, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo,
N. L. Wang, and P. Dai, Nature (London) **453**, 899 (2008). * [23] M.
Yoshizawa, D. Kimura, T. Chiba, S. Simayi, Y. Nakanishi, K. Kihou, C.-H.
Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, M. Nakajima, and S. ichi Uchida, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **81**, 024604 (2012). * [24] J. L. Niedziela, D. Parshall, K. A.
Lokshin, A. S. Sefat, A. Alatas, and T. Egami, Phys. Rev. B **84**,
224305 (2011). * [25] K. Kudo, M. Takasuga, Y. Okamoto, Z. Hiroi, and M.
Nohara, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 097002 (2012). * [26] D. Hirai, F. von
Rohr, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 100505 (2012). * [27] L.
Poudel, A. F. May, M. R. Koehler, M. A. McGuire, S. Mukhopadhyay, S.
Calder, R. E. Baumbach, R. Mukherjee, D. Sapkota, C. de la Cruz, D. J.
Singh, D. Mandrus, and A. D. Christianson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **117**,
235701 (2016). * [28] S. U. Handunkanda, E. B. Curry, V. Voronov, A. H.
Said, G. G. Guzman-Verri, R. T. Brierley, P. B. Littlewood, and J. N.
Hancock, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 134101 (2015). * [29] N. Kase, H.
Hayamizu, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 184509 (2011). * [30] S.
K. Goh, D. A. Tompsett, P. J. Saines, H. C. Chang, T. Matsumoto, M.
Imai, K. Yoshimura, and F. M. Grosche, Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**, 097002
(2015). * [31] W. C. Yu, Y. W. Cheung, P. J. Saines, M. Imai, T.
Matsumoto, C. Michioka, K. Yoshimura, and S. K. Goh, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**115**, 207003 (2015). * [32] C. S. Lue, C. N. Kuo, C. W. Tseng, K. K.
Wu, Y.-H. Liang, C.-H. Du, and Y. K. Kuo, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 245119
(2016). * [33] Y. W. Cheung, J. Z. Zhang, J. Y. Zhu, W. C. Yu, Y. J. Hu,
D. G. Wang, Y. O’tono, K. Iwasa, K. Kaneko, M. Imai, H. Kanagawa, K.
Yoshimura, and S. K. Goh, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 241112 (2016). * [34] Y.
W. Cheung, Y. J. Hu, S. K. Goh, K. Kaneko, S. Tsutsui, P. W. Logg, F. M.
Grosche, H. Kanagawa, Y. Tanioku, M. Imai, T. Matsumoto, and K.
Yoshimura, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **807**, 032002 (2017). * [35] Y. J. Hu,
Y. W. Cheung, W. C. Yu, M. Imai, H. Kanagawa, J. Murakawa, K. Yoshimura,
and S. K. Goh, Phys. Rev. B **95**, 155142 (2017). * [36] L. E.
Klintberg, S. K. Goh, P. L. Alireza, P. J. Saines, D. A. Tompsett, P. W.
Logg, J. Yang, B. Chen, K. Yoshimura, and F. M. Grosche, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **109**, 237008 (2012). * [37] P. K. Biswas, Z. Guguchia, R.
Khasanov, M. Chinotti, L. Li, K. Wang, C. Petrovic, and E. Morenzoni,
Phys. Rev. B **92**, 195122 (2015). * [38] Y. Feng, J. Wang, R.
Jaramillo, J. van Wezel, S. Haravifard, G. Srajer, Y. Liu, Z.-A. Xu, P.
B. Littlewood, and T. F. Rosenbaum, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **109**,
7224 (2012). * [39] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.98.161103 for (1)
experimental methods, (2) procedures of analyzing the IXS spectra, (3)
IXS spectra showing phonon softening for x = 0.5 and x = 0.85, (4)
dispersion relations of x = 0.5 and x = 0.75, and (5) phonon mode
recovery below T^(*) for x = 0. * [40] J. Yang, B. Chen, C. Michioka,
and K. Yoshimura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 113705 (2010). * [41] D. A.
Tompsett, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 075117 (2014). * [42] D. G. Mazzone, S.
Gerber, J. L. Gavilano, R. Sibille, M. Medarde, B. Delley, M.
Ramakrishnan, M. Neugebauer, L. P. Regnault, D. Chernyshov, A. Piovano,
T. M. Fernandez-Diaz, L. Keller, A. Cervellino, E. Pomjakushina, K.
Conder, and M. Kenzelmann, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 024101 (2015). * [43] M.
T. Dove, _Structure and Dynamics: An Atomic View of Materials_ (Oxford
University Press, New York, 2003), Vol. 1. * [44] G. Gruner, _Density
Waves In Solids_, Frontiers in Physics (Westview Press, Florida,
2009). * [45] P. Brown, K. Semeniuk, D. Wang, B. Monserrat, C. J.
Pickard, and F. M. Grosche, Sci. Adv. **4**, eaao4793 (2018). * [46] S.
E. Rowley, L. J. Spalek, R. P. Smith, M. P. M. Dean, M. Itoh, J. F.
Scott, G. G. Lonzarich, and S. S. Saxena, Nat. Phys. **10**, 367
(2014). * [47] P. Chandra, G. G. Lonzarich, S. E. Rowley, and J. F.
Scott, Rep. Prog. Phys. **80**, 112502 (2017). * [48] C. W. Rischau, X.
Lin, C. P. Grams, D. Finck, S. Harms, J. Engelmayer, T. Lorenz, Y.
Gallais, B. Fauque, J. Hemberger, and K. Behnia, Nat. Phys. **13**, 643
(2017). * [49] M. Brando, D. Belitz, F. M. Grosche, and T. R.
Kirkpatrick, Rev. Mod. Phys. **88**, 025006 (2016).
