Sb-NQR study of unconventional superconductivity in the filled
skutterudite heavy-fermion compound PrOs4Sb12 under high pressure up to
3.82 GPa

S. Kawasaki

1,2,3,4,5,6,7

K. Katayama

1 Department of Physics, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan

H. Sugawara

2 Department of Mathematical and Natural Sciences, Faculty of Integrated
Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokushima, Tokushima 770-8502,
Japan

D. Kikuchi

3 Department of Physics, Graduate School of Science, Tokyo Metropolitan
University, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0397, Japan

H. Sato

3 Department of Physics, Graduate School of Science, Tokyo Metropolitan
University, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0397, Japan

Guo-qing Zheng

1 Department of Physics, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan

Received 4 June 2008; published 12 August 2008

###### Abstract

We report ¹²³Sb nuclear-quadrupole-resonance (NQR) measurements of the
filled skutterudite heavy-fermion superconductor PrOs4Sb12 under high
pressure. The temperature dependence of NQR frequency and the
spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T₁ indicate that the
crystal-electric-field splitting $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ between the
ground-state Γ₁ singlet and the first-excited-state Γ₄⁽²⁾ triplet
decreases with increasing pressure. ac-susceptibility measurements
indicate that the superconducting transition temperature (T_(c)) also
decreases with increasing pressure. However, above P∼ 2 GPa, both
$\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ and T_(c) do not depend on external pressure up to P
= 3.82 GPa. These pressure dependences of $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ and T_(c)
suggest an intimate relationship between quadrupole excitations
associated with the Γ₄⁽²⁾ level and unconventional superconductivity in
PrOs4Sb12. In the superconducting state, 1/T₁ below T_(c)=1.55 and 1.57
K at P=1.91 and 2.63 GPa shows a power-law temperature variations and is
proportional to T⁵ at temperatures considerably below T_(c). These data
can be well fitted by the gap model Δ(θ)=Δ₀ sin θ, with
Δ₀=3.08k_(B)T_(c) and 3.04k_(B)T_(c) for P=1.91 and 2.63 GPa,
respectively. The results indicate that there exist point nodes in the
gap function.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.78.064510 74.62.Fj, 74.70.Tx, 76.60.Gv, 71.

medium, respectively.[39, 40] The pressure at low temperatures was
determined from the pressure dependence of the T_(c) values of Sn and/or
Pb metals measured by a conventional four-terminal method. Temperature
dependence of ac susceptibility is measured by a four-terminal method
using NQR coil. Data below 1.4 K were collected using a ³He/⁴He dilution
refrigerator at P=0 and a ³He refrigerator under P=1.91 and 2.63 GPa,
respectively.

The Sb nuclei have two isotopes of ¹²¹Sb and ¹²³Sb with natural
abundances of 57.3

Figures 1(a) and 1(b) show a typical data set of ¹²³Sb-NQR recovery
curves of 2ν_(Q) transition to obtain relaxation time T₁ which are
measured at T=1.54 K just below T_(c)(P)= 1.57 K [Fig. 1(a)] and T=0.59
K well below T_(c)(P) [Fig. 1(b)] at P=2.63 GPa, respectively. Since
there is an asymmetry parameter η at the position of Sb nucleus, T₁ is
determined by the theoretical curve of nuclear magnetization where the
value of η is incorporated.[41] As seen in Fig. 1(b), to avoid possible
heating due to the rf pulses, we used small amplitude rf pulses in the
T₁ measurements at very low temperatures. We confirmed the lack of a
heating effect to T₁ process by ensuring that the spin-echo intensity is
not affected by an rf pulse with a slightly off-resonance frequency,
which was applied before the π/2-π pulse sequence.

## III III. Uncommon superconductivity in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ at ambient pressure

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependences of 1/T₁ at ambient pressure
(solid circles). The ambient-pressure data are in excellent agreement
with those reported previously (open circles).[14] At high temperatures,
100 K >T>T₀∼ 10 K, 1/T₁ increase slightly and become temperature
independent with decreasing temperature. In this case, the relaxation
rate is dominated by the Pr 4/²-derived localized magnetic moments on
the Γ₄⁽²⁾ triplet state. With decreasing temperature below T₀∼ 10 K,
1/T₁ starts to decrease because a depopulation of 4f electron at Γ₄⁽²⁾
triplet state occurs below T≤$\Delta_{\rm{CEF}}$/k_(B). Such a
phenomenon is also confirmed in temperature dependence of 2ν_(Q)
resonance frequency as will be discussed later. Remarkably, just below
T_(c), the Hebel

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of 1/T₁ at P =0 (solid
circles) along with the data cited from literature (Ref. [14]) (open
circles). Dotted lines indicate a relation of 1/T₁=const. Solid and
dotted arrows indicate T_(c) and T₀, respectively. The inset shows
temperature dependence of NQR frequency for 2ν_(Q) transition at ambient
pressure (solid circle) along with previous report (open circle) cited
from literature (Ref. [14]).

Figure 1: (Color online) Recovery curves of the nuclear magnetization
measured at 2ν_(Q) transition of ¹²³Sb in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ at (a) T =1.54 K
[just below T_(c)(P)=1.57 K] and (b) T=0.59 K [considerably below
T_(c)(P)] at P=2.63 GPa. The solid curves are theoretical fitting curve
(see text).

Slichter (coherence) peak is absent, indicating a non-s-wave
superconductivity. At further low temperatures 1/T₁ decreases
exponentially.[14] Below T=0.4 K, 1/T₁ become a constant, which is
likely due to impurities. The present sample reproduces the previous
results but shows smaller contribution of 1/T₁=const behavior at the
lowest-temperature region than previous report,[14] which suggests that
now samples have better quality.[24] The most likely cause for such
T-independent 1/T₁ is the presence of a small amount of magnetic
impurity, which is pressure independent.

The inset of Fig. 2 shows the temperature dependence of the 2ν_(Q)
transition at P=0. T₀ is the temperature at which the 2ν_(Q) resonance
frequency increases abruptly. Since the electrical field gradient (EFG)
is predominantly determined by the on-site charge distribution, the NQR
frequency is a powerful probe of the population of the ground/excited
state. Indeed, in both PrOs₄Sb₁₂ (Ref. [14]) and PrRu₄Sb₁₂,[42]T₀ is in
good agreement with $\Delta_{\rm CEF}/k_{B}$. More recently, it has been
suggested that the temperature dependence of NQR frequency can be
accounted for by the EFG associated with the hexadecapole moment of the
Γ₄⁽²⁾ state.[43] Therefore, it is concluded that the increase in the NQR
frequency below T₀ is due to the depopulation of f electron in the Γ₄⁽²⁾
state below this temperature. Here, we determined T₀=12 K at ambient
pressure, below which 1/T₁ and dν_(Q)/dT starts to decrease.

## IV Pressure dependence of $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ in PrOs₄Sb₁₂

As discussed in Sec. III, we can estimate a value of $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$
from the temperature dependence of NQR frequency. Figure 3 shows typical
data set of temperature dependence of ¹²³Sb-NQR spectra measured at
2ν_(Q) transition at P =2.63 GPa. As seen in Fig. 3, at P=2.63 GPa,
¹²³Sb-NQR spectrum has a symmetrical shape and the center of spectrum
clearly shifts to higher frequency due to the depopulation of f electron
in the Γ₄⁽²⁾ state below T₀ ($\propto\Delta_{\rm CEF}/k_{B}$). Thus, we
can determine the peak position of NQR spectra precisely even under high
pressure. Figure 4 summarizes the temperature dependence of 2ν_(Q)
resonance frequency under various pressures. The temperature dependence
of 2ν_(Q) resonance frequency shifts to lower temperature under pressure
indicating the decrease in $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ with increasing pressure
but it does not change between P=2.63 and 3.82 GPa. As seen in the inset
of Fig. 4, we define T₀ at which df/dT starts to decrease steeply. Here,
f denotes 2ν_(Q) resonance frequency. We determined T₀(P)∼ 10, 7, and 7
K at P=0.84, 2.63, and 3.82 GPa, respectively. The pressure dependence
of T₀ is summarized in Fig. 6(a). Notably, it is found that T₀ decreases
with increasing pressure up to P∼ 2 GPa (Ref. [36]) but becomes pressure
independent above P∼ 2 GPa.

## V Pressure dependence of T_(c) in PrOs₄Sb₁₂

Next the superconductivity in PrOs₄Sb₁₂. To clarify their relationship
more quantitatively, further experimental studies under high pressure
are highly deserved.

On the theoretical side, it has been proposed that the superconductivity
is mediated by the excitons due to the Γ₄⁽²⁾−Γ₁ quasiquartet [12]. In
such case, T_(c)(P) would increase due to the enhancement of such
interaction when $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ is reduced. However, clearly, our
results indicate T_(c) decreases with increasing pressure and do not
lend a straightforward support to the theory. Notably, recent Eliashberg
theory revealed the $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ dependence of T_(c) in
La_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂ system [34]. They indicate, in PrOs₄Sb₁₂, the
reduction in $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ results a suppression of T_(c) due to
the magnetic scattering. It is good agreement with present results.
However, they also suggest that PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is s-wave singlet
superconductor [34] and is not compatible with present results. Further
theories are called for.

## VI VI. Evolution of normal state electric properties in PrOs₄Sb₁₂
under pressure

Next, we discuss the pressure and temperature dependences of ¹²³Sb-NQR
relaxation rate 1/T₁, which gives information on the dynamical electric
and on superconducting properties. Figure 7 shows the temperature
dependence of 1/T₁T at P=0, 1.91, 2.34, and 2.63 GPa. In Sec. IV, we
concluded that $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ decreases with increasing pressure and
it saturates above 2 GPa. Such a conclusion is also supported by the
temperature dependence of 1/T₁T under pressure. The pressure effect
appears below 4 K. At P=0, the reduction in 1/T₁T results in a peak
structure in the plot of 1/T₁T versus T, which is due to the
depopulation of the Γ₄⁽²⁾ state below T₀[14]. At high pressures, 1/T₁T
continues to increase and the decreases in 1/T₁T occur at lower
temperature, indicating the decrease in $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$. Since
$\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ decreases with increasing pressure, this may induce
the increase in quadrupole fluctuations due to the f electron at the
Γ₄⁽²⁾ state. These results are consistent with the conclusion inferred
from the magnetization measurement [37]. At P=2.34 and 2.63 GPa, 1/T₁T
in the whole temperature regions has almost the same value. Thus, the
peak position and T_(c) found in the temperature dependence of 1/T₁T are
unchanged above P∼ 2 GPa, and these are consistent with the pressure
dependence of T₀ and T_(c) determined by the temperature dependences of
2ν_(Q) transition and ac susceptibility as discussed in Secs. I-V.

## VII VII. Superconducting properties under pressure

Next, we discuss the superconducting property in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ under
pressure. Figure 8 shows the temperature dependence of 1/T₁ at P=0,
1.91, and 2.63 GPa. As discussed in Sec. III, the 1/T₁ is T independent
above T₀, indicating that the relaxation in the high-temperature region
is dominated by the Pr 4/²-derived localized magnetic moments [36]. With
decreasing temperature below T₀, 1/T₁

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of ac susceptibility at
P=0, 0.84, 1.91, and 2.63 GPa. The inset shows an onset of
superconductivity at P=3.82 GPa. Arrows indicate T_(c)(P).

Figure 6: Pressure-temperature phase diagrams for PrOs₄Sb₁₂ for T₀
[solid triangles in (a)] and T_(c) [solid circles in (b)] determined by
present results. Dotted curves are guides for the eyes.

starts to decrease. At P = 1.91 and 2.63 GPa, the reduction in 1/_T_1
below T0 to _T__(c) becomes smaller compared to ambient-pressure data
since the contribution of the excitation gap $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ in
1/_T_1 becomes smaller under pressure. Notably, just below _T__(c)(_P_),
no coherence peak is observed at high pressures, even though _T__(c)
differs in each pressures. This indicates that the lack of coherence
peak in PrOs4Sb12 is intrinsic property.

The temperature dependences of 1/_T_1 below _T__(c)(_P_) at high
pressures are markedly different from that at ambient pressure. As seen
in solid line in Fig. 8, 1/_T_1 at P = 1.91 and 2.63 GPa decreases in a
power law like temperature dependence below _T__(c)(_P_). However, at
ambient pressure, 1/_T_1 decreases exponentially as indicated by dotted
line in Fig. 8. What is the origin of these different temperature
dependences of 1/_T_1 below _T__(c) at ambient and under pressures? One
possible scenario is provided below. At ambient pressure, the larger
excitation gap $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ contributes to the reduction in 1/_T_1
below _T__(c), which make the temperature dependence of 1/_T_1
exponential like across _T__(c). Actually, at P = 1.91, 2.34, and 2.63
GPa, the anomaly at _T__(c)(_P_) in temperature dependence of 1/_T_1
becomes clearer compared to ambient-pressure data since the
$\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ decreases under pressure and its contribution to
1/_T_1 under pressure becomes smaller. So, we can determine _T__(c)(_P_)
from the temperature dependence of 1/_T_1 as seen in Figs. 8 and 9. Such
a scenario is also supported by our previous NQR studies in the
substitution systems Pr(Os1-Ru)4Sb12351 was confirmed that
$\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ becomes larger when Ru is substituted for Os
site.[22, 35] As a result, in Pr(Os1-Ru)4Sb12, it becomes more difficult
to determine _T__(c) in the temperature dependence of 1/_T_1 compared to
PrOs4Sb12 due to the increase in the contribution of excitation gap
$\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ in 1/_T_1 across _T__(c).[35] Thus, it is suggested
that the excitation gap $\Delta_{\rm CEF}/k_{B}$ >= 10 K may make
temperature dependence of 1/_T_1 look unusual.

Notably, at P = 1.91 and 2.63 GPa, 1/_T_1 become proportional to _T_⁵
below T   0.6 K. We find that a point-node

Figure 8: (Color online) Temperature dependence of Sb-NQR 1/_T_1 at P =
0 (solid circles), P = 1.91 GPa (solid triangles), and P = 2.63 GPa
(solid squares) along with the data at ambient pressure cited from Ref.
[14] (open circles). The straight line is a guide for the eyes. The
dotted curve depicts the relation 1/_T_1 × exp(−Δ_0/_kB_T_c) with
Δ_0/_kB_T_c= 3.45, proposed by Yogi _et al._ (Ref. [42]). Arrows
indicate _T__(c).

Figure 7: (Color online) Temperature dependences of 123Sb-NQR 1/_T_1T
for PrOs4Sb12 at P = 0 (solid circles), P = 1.91 GPa (solid triangles),
P = 2.34 GPa (solid squares), and P = 2.63 GPa (solid diamonds) along
with the data at ambient pressure cited from Ref. [14] (open circles).
Solid arrows indicate _T__(c)(_P_).

Figure 9: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of 1/_T_1 at P =
1.91 GPa [solid circles in (a)] and P = 2.63 GPa [solid squares in (b)].
Solid and dotted arrows indicate _T__(c) and T0, respectively. The solid
curves are fit assuming the ABM state (see text). The solid and dotted
lines indicate the relation of 1/_T_1 × constant at high-temperature
region and 1/_T_1 × T5 well below _T__(c), respectively.

model, with a low-energy (E) superconducting DOS proportional to E², can
explain well these temperature dependences of 1/T₁ below T_(c)(P). As
plotted in Figs. 9(a) and 9(b) by solid curves, we obtained excellent
agreement with experimental results below T_(c)(P). Here, we employed
Anderson-Brinkmann-Morel (ABM) p-wave model [44, 45] to represent
temperature dependence of 1/T₁ below T_(c)(P) as

$$\frac{T_{1}(T_{c})}{T_{1}}=\frac{2}{k_{B}T}\!\int\left(\frac{N_{S}(E)}{N_{0}} \right)^{2}\!\!\!f(E)[1-f(E)]dE,$$

where $N_{S}(E)/N_{0}\!=\!E/\sqrt{E^{2}\!-\!\Delta^{2}}$ with Δ(θ) = Δ₀
sin θ. From fitting results, we obtained Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.08 and 3.04
for P = 1.91 and 2.63 GPa, respectively. Since the superconducting
transition temperatures at P = 1.91 and 2.63 GPa are almost same, the
values of Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c) are very close in both pressures. Recently, the
p + h model [27] proposed to explain the results of thermal conductivity
would give a T²-like dependence since the DOS at low E is linear in E
and is therefore not compatible with our results of 1/T₁ ∝ T⁵.

## VIII Conclusion

In this paper, we have presented extensive ¹²³Sb-NQR studies on the
normal and superconducting states in filled skutterudite heavy-fermion
superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂ under high pressure up to 3.82 GPa. From the
temperature dependences of ¹²³Sb-NQR frequency and the spin-lattice
relaxation rate 1/T₁ under pressure, it is indicated that the
crystal-electric-field splitting $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ between the
ground-state Γ₁ singlet and the first-excited-state Γ₄⁽²⁾ triplet
decreases with increasing pressure. However, further application of
pressure above P=3 GPa reveals that $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ does not change
in 2 GPa< P < 4 GPa. Concomitantly, similar pressure dependence is
confirmed in the superconducting transition temperature T_(c)(P).
Although the origin of these pressure dependences of $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$
and T_(c) is still unknown, it suggests that superconductivity in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is closely related to the Γ₄⁽²⁾ state. In the superconducting
state at P = 1.91 and 2.63 GPa, 1/T₁ shows no coherence peak just below
T_(c)(P), shows power-law temperature variations, and is proportional to
at temperatures considerably below T_(c)(P). These data can be well
represented by the gap model Δ(θ) = Δ₀ sin θ with Δ₀ = 3.08k_(B)T_(c)
and 3.04k_(B)T_(c) for P = 1.91 and 2.63 GPa, respectively. This
evidences that superconductivity in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ has point nodes in the gap
function.

These results indicate that quadrupole/magnetic fluctuations induced by
Γ₄⁽²⁾ triplet state may play a vital role for the occurrence of
unconventional superconductivity in PrOs₄Sb₁₂. We believe that present
results shed further light on the mechanism of unconventional
superconductivity in this compound and will stimulate further
theoretical works.

## Acknowledgments

We thank M. Nishiyama for contribution in constructing low-temperature
NMR probe and H. Kotegawa and T. C. Kobayashi for their experimental
help in high-pressure measurements using indenter-type cell. This work
was supported in part by grants for scientific research from MEXT and
JSPS.

## References

* [*] Kawasaki@science.okayama-u.ac.jp * [2] E. D. Bauer, N. A.
Frederick, P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **65**,
100506(R) (2002). * [3] M. B. Maple, P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, N. A.
Frederick, E. D. Bauer, W. M. Yuhasz, F. M. Woodward, and J. W. Lynn, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, Suppl., 23 (2002). * [4] R. Vollmer, A. Faistl,
C. Pfleiderer, H. v. Lohneysen, E. D. Bauer, P.-C. Ho, V. Zapf, and M.
B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 057001 (2003). * [5] H. Sugawara, S.
Osaki, S. R. Saha, Y. Aoki, H. Sato, Y. Inada, H. Shishido, R. Settai,
Y. Onuki, H. Harima, and K. Oikawa, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 220504(R)
(2002). * [6] Y. Aoki, T. Namiki, S. Ohsaki, S. R. Saha, H. Sugawara,
and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 2098 (2002). * [7] K. Tenya, N.
Oeschler, P. Gegenwart, F. Steglich, N. A. Frederick, E. D. Bauer, and
M. B. Maple, Acta Phys. Pol. B **34**, 995 (2003). * [8] T. Tayama, T.
Sakakibara, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**72**, 1516 (2003). * [9] M. Kohgi, K. Iwasa, M. Nakajima, N. Metoki,
S. Araki, N. Bernhoeft, J. M. Mignot, A. Gukasov, H. Sato, Y. Aoki, and
H. Sugawara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72**, 1002 (2003). * [10] K. Kuwahara,
K. Iwasa, M. Kohgi, K. Kaneko, S. Araki, N. Metoki, H. Sugawara, Y.
Aoki, and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **73**, 1438 (2004). * [11] E. A.
Goremychkin, R. Osborn, E. D. Bauer, M. B. Maple, N. A. Frederick, W. M.
Yuhasz, F. M. Woodward, and J. W. Lynn, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 157003
(2004). * [12] E. D. Bauer, P.-C. Ho, M. B. Maple, T. Schauerte, D. L.
Cox, and F. B. Anders, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 094511 (2006). * [13] M.
Matsumoto and M. Koga, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 1686 (2005). * [14] K.
Kuwahara, K. Iwasa, M. Kohgi, K. Kaneko, N. Metoki, S. Raymond, M.-A.
Measson, J. Flouquet, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **95**, 107003 (2005). * [15] H. Kotegawa, M. Yogi, Y. Imamura, Y.
Kawasaki, G.-q. Zheng, Y. Kitaoka, S. Ohsaki, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and
H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 027001 (2003). * [16] D. E.
MacLaughlin, J. E. Sonier, R. H. Heffner, O. O. Bernal, B.-L. Young, M.
S. Rose, G. D. Morris, E. D. Bauer, T. D. Do, and M. B. Maple, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **89**, 157001 (2002). * [17] Y. Aoki, A. Tsuchiya, T.
Kanayama, S. R. Saha, H. Sugawara, H. Sato, W. Higemoto, A. Koda, K.
Ohishi, K. Nishiyama, and R. Kadono, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 067003
(2003). * [18] K. Izawa, Y. Nakajima, J. Goryo, Y. Matsuda, S. Osaki, H.
Sugawara, H. Sato, P. Thalmeier, and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**,
117001 (2003). * [19] E. E. M. Chia, M. B. Salamon, H. Sugawara, and H.
Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 247003 (2003).

* [19] H. Suderow, S. Vieira, J. D. Strand, S. Bud’ko, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 060504(R) (2004). * [20] T. Goto, Y.
Nemoto, K. Sakai, T. Yamaguchi, M. Akatsu, T. Yanagisawa, H. Hazama, K.
Onuki, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 180511(R)
(2004). * [21] M.-A. Measson, D. Braithwaite, J. Flouquet, G. Seyfarth,
J. P. Brison, E. Lhotel, C. Paulsen, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys.
Rev. B **70**, 064516 (2004). * [22] N. A. Frederick, T. A. Sayles, and
M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 064508 (2005). * [23] G. Seyfarth, J.
P. Brison, M.-A. Measson, J. Flouquet, K. Izawa, Y. Matsuda, H.
Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 107004 (2005). * [24] M.
Yogi, T. Nagai, Y. Imamura, H. Mukuda, Y. Kitaoka, D. Kikuchi, H.
Sugawara, Y. Aoki, H. Sato, and H. Harima, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**,
124702 (2006). * [25] W. Higemoto, S. R. Saha, A. Koda, K. Ohishi, R.
Kadono, Y. Aoki, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **75**,
020510(R) (2007). * [26] K. Maki, H. Won, P. Thalmeier, Q. Yuan, K.
Izawa, and Y. Matsuda, Europhys. Lett. **64**, 496 (2003). * [27] K.
Maki, S. Haas, D. Parker, H. Won, K. Izawa, and Y. Matsuda, Europhys.
Lett. **68**, 720 (2004). * [28] K. Miyake, H. Kohno, and H. Harima, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **15**, L275 (2003). * [29] J. Goryo, Phys. Rev.
B **67**, 184511 (2003). * [30] M. Ichioka, N. Nakai, and K. Machida, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72**, 1322 (2003). * [31] M. Koga, M. Matsumoto, and
H. Shiba, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 014709 (2006). * [32] T. R. Abu
Alrub and S. H. Curnoe, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 054514 (2007). * [33] T. R.
Abu Alrub and S. H. Curnoe, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 184511 (2007). * [34]
Jun Chang, Ilya Eremin, Peter Thalmeier, and Peter Fulde, Phys. Rev. B
**76**, 220510(R) (2007). * [35] M. Nishiyama, T. Kato, H. Sugawara, D.
Kikuchi, H. Sato, H. Harima, and G.-q. Zheng, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**,
1938 (2005). * [36] K. Katayama, S. Kawasaki, M. Nishiyama, H. Sugawara,
D. Kikuchi, H. Sato, and G.-q. Zheng, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 023701
(2007). * [37] T. Tayama, T. Sakakibara, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 043707 (2006). * [38] T. C. Kobayashi, H.
Hidaka, H. Kotegawa, K. Fujiwara, and M. I. Eremets, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**78**, 023909 (2007). * [39] A. S. Kirichenko, A. V. Kornilov, and V.
M. Pudalov, Instrum. Exp. Tech. **48**, 813 (2005). * [40] K. Murata, H.
Yoshino, H. O. Yadav, Y. Honda, and N. Shirakawa, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**68**, 2490 (1997). * [41] J. Chepin and J. H. Ross, Jr., J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **3**, 8103 (1991). * [42] M. Yogi, H. Kotegawa, Y.
Imamura, G.-q. Zheng, Y. Kitaoka, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B
**67**, 180501(R) (2003). * [43] H. Tou, M. Doi, M. Sera, M. Yogi, H.
Sugawara, R. Shiina, and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 2695
(2005). * [44] P. W. Anderson and P. Morel, Phys. Rev. **123**, 1911
(1961). * [45] P. W. Anderson and W. F. Brinkman, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**30**, 1108 (1973).
