# Spheroidicity and magnetism of bcc Cr-Ru alloys

Y. Nishihara, Y. Yamaguchi, and M. Tokumoto

Electrotechnical Laboratory, Sakura-mura, Ibaraki 305, Japan

K. Takeda

Faculty of Engineering, Kyushu University, Fukuoka 812, Japan

K. Fukamichi

The Research Institute for Iron, Steel and Other Metals, Tohoku
University, Sendai 980, Japan

###### Abstract

The superconducting and magnetic properties of bcc Cr-Ru alloys with
between 14 and 25 at.

## I Introduction

The Cr-Ru system has a bcc structure up to  30 at.

Footnote 1: The magnetic susceptibility of the Cr-Ru alloy was measured
by the A 15 structure of Cr3Ru.

The antiferromagnetic transition temperature of the Cr-Re system was
studied by many workers.2-4 The Cr-Re system shows behavior similar to
that of the Cr-Ru system in the magnetic transition temperature and
furthermore the former exhibits superconductivity and antiferromagnetism
in the region higher than 18 at.

## II Experimental results

${\rm Cr}_{100-x}{\rm Ru}_{x}$ (14 <= <= 0) alloys were prepared by arc
melting, using 99.99

Figure 1: Lattice constant of bcc Cr-Ru alloys.

is superconducting below 3.25 K and has a lattice constant of
4.677 ± 0.001 A.

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of the upper critical field
H_(c2) determined from the midpoint of the resistivity change. Matthias
_et al._ reported [1] that the solid solution of Ru in bcc Cr is not
superconducting above 0.3 K, since the predominant phase of the
superconducting Cr-Ru alloy has the A15 structure. However, the present
result demonstrates that superconductivity is observed even in the Cr-Ru
alloys of pure bcc phase. To investigate whether the superconductivity
comes from the bulk of the sample or not, we have measured the
temperature dependence of the specific heat of the bcc Cr₇₅Ru₂₅ alloy
which corresponds to the same Ru concentration as the A15 compound of
Cr₃Ru.

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of the specific heat capacity
C of bcc Cr₇₅Ru₂₅ in zero external field. The value of C increases
exponentially with increasing temperature from 0.8 K and exhibits a peak
at T_(c)=1.87 K. From the plot of C/RT vs T², where R is the gas
constant, we find that the specific heat jump at T_(c) is
ΔC/γT_(c)∼1.28, which is ∼90

The magnetization curves of bcc Cr₇₅Ru₂₅ were measured below 2.4 K. The
initial magnetization exhibits perfect diamagnetism as shown in the
inset of Fig. 4. The lower critical field H_(c1) estimated from these
curves shows the two-step increase with decreasing temperature. The
value of H_(c1) is less than 10 Oe between T_(c)^(R) and T_(c) and in

Figure 4: Lower and the upper critical fields of H_(c1) and H_(c2) of
bcc Cr₇₅Ru₂₅. The inset shows the magnetization curves below 100 Oe.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the specific heat of bcc Cr₇₅Ru₂₅.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the upper critical field of bcc
Cr-Ru alloys and Cr₃Ru with the A15 structure.

creases rapidly below T_(c) up to  150 Oe. However, the upper critical
field obtained from the resistivity measurement shows no anomaly at
T_(c).

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility
of bcc Cr-Ru alloys. The susceptibility decreases with increasing Ru
concentration and that of Cr86Ru14 shows two kinks at around 160 and 320
K. With increasing Ru concentration only the low-temperature peak
remains. The position of the peak is almost independent of the Ru
concentration within +- 10 K.

## III Discussion

The superconducting and magnetic transition temperatures are illustrated
in Fig. 6. The antiferromagnetic transition temperatures for the alloys
with concentrations lower than 14 at.

Recently, Damaschke and Felsch8 have made an analysis of the upper
critical field of Cr-Re alloys and reported that the critical-field
curves are adequately described by the theory for dirty superconductors.
Moreover, they have pointed out that all the experimental data of Cr-Re
alloys have a drawback coming from sample inhomogeneities. The width of
the superconducting transition in the Cr-Ru alloys is ten times smaller
than that in the Cr-Re alloys. Thus the Cr-Ru system will provide more
accurate information than the Cr-Re system on the superconducting
properties in the state where it coexists with itinerant-electron
antiferromagnetism.

In the Cr-Ru alloys the superconducting transition temperature T_(c)
determined from the resistivity is higher than the T_(c) determined from
the specific heat. The magnetization measurement shows that the lower
critical field is less than 10 Oe between T_(c) and T_(c) and increases
rapidly below T_(c) with decreasing temperature. The difference between
T_(c) and T_(c) is 0.3-0.6 K. However, the transition width estimated by
both measurements is  0.05 K. In general, two transition temperatures
would be observed when the sample is inhomogeneous. In an inhomogeneous
solid solution, the transition width is relatively broad and the
temperature dependence of the upper critical field has an upward
curvature near T_(c).9,10 The transition width and the upper critical
field of the Cr-Ru system have none of the tendencies associated with
this type of inhomogeneous superconductor. Therefore, the resistive
transitions T_(c) could be dominated by a low-concentration impurity

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility of bcc
Cr-Ru alloys.

Figure 6: Superconducting and magnetic transition temperatures of bcc
Cr-Ru alloys. The closed circles are the magnetic transition
temperatures from Refs. [2] and [6].

phase, while the specific heat T_(c) could represent the majority bulk
solid solution. The superconductivity between T_(c)^(R) and T_(c) might
result from the surface superconducting state or a new state related to
itinerant-electron antiferromagnetism. More detailed experiments are
required in order to understand the origin of the superconductivity
between T_(c)^(R) and T_(c) and to confirm itinerant-electron
antiferromagnetism below ∼ 170 K.

## IV Conclusion

Cr-Ru alloys with bcc structure exhibit superconductivity below ∼ 2 K in
the concentration region higher than ∼17 at.

## References

* Matthias et al. (1962) B. T. Matthias, T. H. Geballe, V. B. Compton,
E. Corenzwit, and G. W. Hull, Jr., Phys. Rev. **128**, 588 (1962). *
Booth (1964) J. G. Booth, Phys. Status Solidi **7**, K157 (1964). *
Muheim and Muller (1964) J. Muheim and J. Muller, Phys. Kondens. Mater.
**2**, 377 (1964). * Nishihara et al. (1985) Y. Nishihara, Y. Yamaguchi,
T. Kohara, and M. Tokumoto, Phys. Rev. B **31**, 5775 (1985). * Takeda
and Kohara (1984) K. Takeda and T. Kohara, Phys. Lett. **106A**, 321
(1984). * Fukamichi (1977) K. Fukamichi, Trans. Jpn. Inst. Met. **18**,
81 (1977). * Kohara et al. (1984) T. Kohara, K. Asayama, Y. Nishihara,
and Y. Yamaguchi, Solid State Commun. **49**, 31 (1984). * Damaschke and
Felsch (1986) B. Damaschke and W. Felsch, Z. Phys. B **63**, 179
(1986). * Klump et al. (1982) J. D. Klump, M. P. Zaitlin, and J. D.
Verhoeven, Phys. Rev. B **26**, 3639 (1982). * Woolf et al. (1983) L. D.
Woolf, S. E. Lambert, M. B. Maple, F. Acker, H. C. Ku, W. Odoni, and H.
R. Ott, J. Low Temp. Phys. **51**, 117 (1983).
