# Superconducting and normal-state properties of heavily hole-doped
diamond

V. A. Sidorov,^(1, 2) E. A. Ekimov,¹ S. M. Stishov,^(1, 2) E. D. Bauer,²
and J. D. Thompson²

¹Verenschlagn Institute for High Pressure Physics, Russian Academy of
Sciences, 142190 Troitsk, Moscow Region, Russia

²Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA

21 September 2004; published 7 February 2005

###### Abstract

We report measurements of the specific heat, Hall effect, upper critical
field, and resistivity on bulk, B-doped diamond prepared by reacting
amorphous B and graphite under high-pressure, high-temperature
conditions. These experiments establish unambiguous evidence for bulk
superconductivity and provide a consistent set of materials parameters
that favor a conventional, weak coupling electron-phonon interpretation
of the superconducting mechanism at high hole doping.

pacs: 74.10.+v, 74.62.Bf, 74.25.−q + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

The theoretical prediction [1] and nearly simultaneous discovery of
superconductivity in self-doped degenerate semiconductors, such as Ge,Te
(Ref. [2]), Sn,Te (Ref. [3]), and SrTiO3,_(4.6) (Ref. [4]), was, at the
time, an important validation of the recently developed BCS theory of
superconductivity and of current understanding of electron-electron and
electron-phonon interactions. The basic premise of these predictions was
that superconductivity would be favored in doped semiconductors with
many-valley band structures due to their relatively enhanced density of
electronic states and the attractive interaction provided by intervalley
phonon scattering. As expected, the superconducting transition
temperatures of these systems were relatively low, with T_(c)s < 0.5 K.
Diamond-structured Si and Ge, which have multivalley band structures,
[5] likewise were predicted to have T_(c)s near 0.005 K when carrier
doped at a concentration = 10²⁰ cm^(−3, 1) but superconductivity has not
been found in their diamond structure. Recently, however,
superconductivity was reported in diamond itself when hole doped by B
additions. [6] Because of its small atomic radius, B is incorporated
relatively easily into the dense diamond lattice and, with one less
electron than C, dopes holes into a shallow acceptor level close to the
top of the valence band. Assuming that each of the approximately ≈ 4.9 x
10²¹ B/cm³ in this superconductor contributed one hole/B to diamond,
this hole density exceeded $n_{\rm{IM}}$ ∼ 2 x 10²⁰ cm⁻³ that is
necessary to induce an insulator-metal transition; beyond this carrier
concentration, the impurity band formed by donor states begins to
overlap the valence-band edge. [7] The superconducting transition
temperature, T_(c) = 4 K, of hole-doped diamond is substantially higher
than predicted for diamond-structured Si or Ge, even if they were doped
hypothetically to n ∼ 10²¹ cm^(−3, 8).

Besides the existence of superconductivity, relatively little else is
known to constrain interpretations of the superconducting mechanism in
diamond. On the basis of existing information, two qualitatively
different views have emerged: superconductivity is electron-phonon
mediated [9, 10, 11, 12] or arises from a resonating valence bond
(RVB)-type of mechanism. [13] Though differing in detail, models of a
conventional mechanism conclude that holes doped into the degenerate
σ-bonding valence band are coupled most strongly by zone-center
optical-phonon modes that soften as holes are added. This mechanism is
analogous to that producing superconductivity near 40 K in MgB₂, [14]
but because of the two-dimensional (2D) character of graphitic B layers
in MgB₂, holes are strongly coupled to optical-phonon modes and T_(c)
correspondingly is an order of magnitude higher than in diamond. With
conventional values for the Coulomb pseudopotential μ * = 0.1−0.2, these
electron-phonon models for superconducting diamond give correct
estimates of T_(c), within factors of order unity. However, the small
carrier concentration in superconducting diamond implies that the
Coulomb interaction may be poorly screened, opening the possibility of
an exotic pairing mechanism. This different viewpoint [13] rests, in
part, on the premise that the doping level in superconducting diamond is
close to the Mott limit. In this case, the disordered lattice of B and
associated random Coulomb potential lift the orbital degeneracy of B
acceptor states, producing a single, narrow half-filled band in which
superconductivity could arise through an RVB-type mechanism. Here we
report specific-heat measurements on newly prepared superconducting
diamond that, with Hall effect, resistivity, upper critical field, and
magnetic susceptibility measurements, clearly establish the bulk nature
of superconductivity and appear to rule out an exotic pairing mechanism.

In an initial report of superconducting diamond, [6] B doping was
achieved by reacting graphite and B₄C at high pressures (8−9 GPa) and
temperatures (2500−2800 K). Under these conditions, small B-doped
diamond aggregates formed that were sufficiently large for electrical
transport and magnetic susceptibility measurements. These experiments
showed the onset of a resistive transition to the superconducting state
near 4 K and zero resistance below 2.3 K where a strong diamagnetic
response developed. Though these measurements provided strong evidence
for bulk superconductivity, the small sample mass and small heat
capacity of B-doped diamond prevented the detection of a clear
specific-heat anomaly at T_(c) that would confirm the bulk nature of
superconductivity. We have synthesized more massive aggregates of bulk
B-doped diamond using similar high-pressure, high-temperature conditions
but starting with a mixture of amorphous B powder and graphite in which
the B content was 4 wt.

Figure 1(a) shows the temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity ρ(T) of the new sample prepared with B powder and measured
using a standard four-probe technique. The overall shape of the curve,
including a metalliclike resistivity above about 250 K, is very similar
to that reported earlier.[6] The room-temperature resistivity of the
present sample agrees quantitatively with reports on B-doped diamond
films having the same hole concentration determined by Hall-effect
measurements.[16, 18] The inset of Fig. 1(a) shows the onset of a
transition near 4.5 K and an immeasurably small resistance below 3.4 K.
Both temperatures are comparable to, but somewhat higher than, those
reported earlier.[6] This broadened resistive transition indicates an
inhomogeneous distribution of charge carriers that is reflected as well
in ac susceptibility $\chi_{\rm ac}$ measurements given in Fig. 1(b). In
contrast to the very sharp transition at 7.2 K in a comparably sized
piece of Pb in the measurement coil, $\chi_{\rm ac}$ of B-doped diamond
starts to deviate from its temperature-independent value near 4.5 K and
is followed at ∼2.3 K by a much steeper transition to a fully
diamagnetic state. These resistance and ac susceptibility measurements
establish that superconductivity in B-doped diamond is a robust result
that does not depend quantitatively on starting materials.

Application of a magnetic field suppresses the resistive transition, as
shown in the inset of Fig. 2. With increasing field, ρ(T) broadens
slightly, with the zero-resistivity temperature decreasing somewhat more
rapidly than the onset temperature. Upper critical fields H_(c2)(T),
defined by the temperatures at which ρ(T) reaches 10

Figure 1: (a) Resistivity (open symbols and left ordinate) and Hall
number (closed symbols and right ordinate) as functions of temperature
for the same bulk, B-doped diamond sample. The inset shows the onset of
a superconducting transition near 4.5 K below which the resistivity
becomes immeasurably small at 3.4 K. (b) ac susceptibility of the
B-doped diamond and a comparably sized piece of Pb in a counterwound
coil. The inset shows the onset of a diamagnetic response in B-doped
diamond at 4 K that is followed below 2.3 K by a response comparable to
that of Pb with T_(c) =7.22 K.

Figure 2: Upper critical magnetic field as a function of temperature for
bulk, B-doped diamond. The curves were constructed by taking the
field-dependent temperatures at which ρ(T), plotted in the inset,
reached 90

sion for a type-II superconductor H_(c2)(0) = −0.69(∂H_(c2)/∂T)T_(c)
(Ref. [19]) gives H_(c2)(0) ≈ 14 T for the higher transition and ≈9.0 T
for the lower transition and corresponding Ginzburg-Landau coherence
lengths $\xi_{\rm GL} = [\Phi_{0}/2\,\pi H_{c2}(0)]^{1/2} = 48$ and 60
A, respectively.

Specific heat was measured on a 43-mg sample taken from the same growth
product that also gave samples used for resistivity and susceptibility
measurements. As seen in Fig. 3, there are anomalies in specific heat
divided by temperature C/T that correspond closely in temperature to
those observed in $\chi_{\rm ac}$. Because specific heat is a
thermodynamic measure of bulk properties, the existence of these
anomalies establishes unambiguously that superconductivity in B-doped
diamond develops throughout the sample volume. A fit of these data above
4.5 K to C/T = γ + βT² gives an average electronic contribution
γ = 0.113 mJ/mol K² and, from the value of β, a sample-average Debye
temperature $\Theta_{\rm D}$=1440 K, which is about 23

Data shown in Figs. 1-3 imply some form of inhomogeneity in the present
sample that also was the case in a sample made with B₄C.[6] There are
several potential sources of non-uniformity in B-doped diamond. Boron
plays a dual role in the synthesis route we use: it serves as a
catalyst, facilitating graphite transformation into diamond, and, at the
same time, B is captured by the diamond lattice as a hole dopant. Upon
cooling from the high-temperature synthesis conditions, some diamond
grains may react more efficiently with boron to form an intergrowth
structure having different B concentrations. There are two additional
factors, possibly related to the first, that contribute to inhomogeneity
of B-doped diamond, irrespective of the preparation technique: (a) B
atoms substitute for C at low doping levels; whereas, at high doping
levels, additional boron atoms enter the diamond structure
interstitially and strain the lattice;[22] and (b) boron atoms are
incorporated preferentially in certain growth sectors.[23, 24] In the
absence of specific knowledge of the growth morphology and B
distribution in our samples, it is not possible to make definitive
statements about the origin of inhomogeneity; although, preferential B
uptake in certain growth sectors provides a plausible mechanism to
account for the specific-heat behaviors of the present sample and the
lack of significant broadening of the resistive transition in high
magnetic fields.[25]

In spite of some inhomogeneity, a simple, consistent interpretation of
measured properties is possible. From free-electron relations for the
Fermi momentum $k_{\rm F}$=(3 π²n)^(1/3) and Sommerfeld coefficient
$\gamma_{0} = k_{\rm B}^{2}m_{b}k_{\rm F}/(3\,\hbar^{2})$, we obtain γ₀
= (m_(b)/m_(e))68 mJ/mol C/K², where m_(b) (m_(e)) is the band
(electron) mass and carrier concentration $n = n_{\rm H}$=1.8 × 10¹²¹
cm⁻³ established by Hall measurements. This free-electron estimate for
γ₀ is equal to the sample-average value determined by specific heat if
m_(b)=1.7m_(e), which agrees well with the effective band mass,
∼1.3m_(e), of diamond.[26] The slope of the upper critical field
∂H_(c2)/∂T provides another consistency check. In the limit that the
electronic mean-free path ln${}_{\rm inf}$ is less than $\xi_{\rm GL}$,
∂H_(c2)/∂T=−Aρ(T_(c)), where A is a units-dependent constant. Taking the
measured values of ρ(T_(c)) = 2.5 mJ/mol C/K² gives ∂H_(c2)/∂T =−3.7
T/K, which is within 10

Figure 3: Specific heat divided by temperature vs temperature for bulk,
B-doped diamond. Two anomalies, corresponding closely in temperature to
those found in ac susceptibility, confirm the bulk nature of
superconductivity. The dashed line is an entropy-conserving
construction, assuming an idealized transition at 4 K. A linear fit of
C/T vs T² for T ≈ 4.5 K, plotted in the inset, gives a sample-averaged
electronic Sommerfeld coefficient γ =0.113 mJ/mol C/K² and Θ_(D)=1440 K.

parameters derived from these experiments argue against the importance
of electronic correlations and an exotic pairing mechanism for
superconductivity.

In summary, specific heat, Hall effect, upper critical field, and
resistivity measurements on bulk, B-doped diamond establish unambiguous
evidence for bulk superconductivity and provide a consistent set of
materials parameters that favor a conventional electron-phonon mechanism
in heavily hole-doped samples. This conclusion favors theoretical models
[6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12] that draw an analogy between hole-doped diamond
and more nearly two-dimensional MgB₂. Though an exotic pairing mechanism
may become operable as hole doping is reduced toward the insulator-metal
boundary, preliminary studies of diamond thin films with various B
contents [27] are consistent, to the extent film-growth conditions allow
an intercomparison of results, with a correlation between doping level
and T_(c), suggesting a common pairing mechanism at low and high B
concentrations.

V. A. S., E. A. K., and S. M. S. acknowledge support from the Russian
Foundation for Basic Research under Grant No. 03-02-17119, and the
Programs "Strongly Correlated Electrons" and "Physics of High Pressures"
of the Department of Physical Sciences, Russian Academy of Sciences.
Work at Los Alamos was performed under the auspices of the U.S.
DOE/Office of Science.

## References

* [1] M. L. Cohen, Rev. Mod. Phys. **36**, 240 (1964); Phys. Rev.
**134**, A511 (1964). * [2] R. A. Hein, J. W. Gibson, R. Mazelsky, R. C.
Miller, and J. K. Hulm, Phys. Rev. Lett. **12**, 320 (1964). * [3] R. A.
Hein, J. W. Gibson, R. S. Allgaier, B. B. Houston, Jr., A. Mazelsky, and
R. C. Miller, in _Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on
Low-Temperature Physics_, edited by J. A. Daunt _et al._ (Plenum, New
York, 1965), p. 604. * [4] J. F. Schooley, W. R. Hosler, E. Amber, J. H.
Becker, M. L. Cohen, and K. C. Koonce, Phys. Rev. Lett. **14**, 305
(1965). * [5] See for example, D. Glotzel, B. Segall, and O. K.
Anderson, Solid State Commun. **36**, 403 (1980). * [6] E. A. Ekimov, V.
A. Sidorov, E. D. Bauer, N. N. Mel’nik, N. J. Curro, J. D. Thompson, and
S. M. Stishov, Nature (London) **428**, 542 (2004). * [7] K. Thonke,
Semicond. Sci. Technol. **18**, S20 (2003). * [8] P. B. Allen and M. L.
Cohen, Phys. Rev. **177**, 704 (1969). * [9] L. Boeri, J. Kortus, and O.
K. Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 237002 (2004). * [10] K.-W. Lee
and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 237003 (2004). * [11] H. J.
Xiang, Z. Li, J. Yang, J. G. Hou, and Q. Zhu, cond-mat/0405040
(unpublished). * [12] X. Blase, Ch. Adessi, and D. Connetable, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **93**, 237004 (2004). * [13] G. Baskaran, cond-mat/0404286
(unpublished). * [14] J. M. An and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**86**, 4366 (2001). * [15] E. A. Ekimov (unpublished). * [16] M.
Werner, O. Dorsch, H. U. Baerwind, E. Obermeier, L. Haase, W. Seifert,
A. Ringhandt, C. Johnston, S. Romani, H. Bishop, and P. R. Chalker,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **64**, 595 (1994). * [17] E. Bustarret, E. Gheeraert,
and K. Watanabe, Phys. Status Solidi A **199**, 9 (2003). * [18] R. J.
Zhang, S. T. Lee, and Y. W. Lam, Diamond Relat. Mater. **5**, 1288
(1996). * [19] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys.
Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [20] L. Feingold, Phys. Rev. Lett. **13**,
233 (1964). * [21] M. L. Cohen, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. D.
Parks (Marcel Dekker, New York, 1969), Vol. 1, p. 615. * [22] Y.-H.
Chen, C.-T. Hu, and I.-N. Lin, Appl. Phys. Lett. **75**, 2857 (1999); J.
Nakamura, E. Kabasawa, N. Yamada, Y. Einaga, D. Saito, H. Isshiki, S.
Yugo, and R. C. C. Perera, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 245111 (2004). * [23] R.
C. Burns, V. Cvetkovic, C. N. Dodge, D. J. F. Evans, M.-L. T. Rooney, P.
M. Spear, and C. M. Webourn, J. Cryst. Growth **104**, 257 (1990). *
[24] K. Ushizawa, K. Watanabe, T. Ando, I. Sakaguchi, M. Nishitani-Gamo,
Y. Sato, and H. Kanda, Diamond Relat. Mater. **7**, 1719 (1998). * [25]
Investigations of B uptake in synthetic diamond (Ref. [23]) and faceted
B-doped diamond crystallites (Ref. [24]) find that B is incorporated
most readily in {11} facets, less so in {110}, and least so in {100}
facets, where the uptake is about an order of magnitude less than in
{111} facets. Nearly homogeneous but somewhat different B concentrations
in {111} and {110} facets conceivably could allow two transitions and
account for the absence of significant field-induced broadening of the
resistive transition. A boron concentration in {100} facets of about 10%
or less of the sample-average Hall number would imply a hole
concentration in that facet close to the insulator-metal limit
$n_{\rm ML}$∼2 × 10²⁰ cm⁻³. In this limit, an emergent impurity band may
not be able to support superconductivity but still contributes a finite
density of electronic states that is suggested from the extrapolated
nonzero value of C/T as T→0. How these sources of real-space
inhomogeneity might affect electronic structure and their possible
relevance to our observations are unknown but deserve theoretical and
experimental attention. * [26] Values for the effective band mass of
holes doped into diamond range from 1.1 to 1.5$m_{\rm e}$. See, for
example, Yu. G. Pogorelov and V. M. Loktev, cond-mat/0405040
(unpublished); L. Reggiani, S. Bosi, C. Canali, F. Nava, and S. F.
Kozlov, Phys. Rev. B **23**, 3050 (1981); F. Nava, C. Canali, C.
Jacoboni, L. Reggiani, and S. F. Kozlov, Solid State Commun. **33**, 475
(1980). * [27] Y. Takano, M. Nagoa, I. Sakaguchi, M. Tachiki, T. Hatano,
K. Kobayashi, H. Umezawa, and H. Kawarada, Appl. Phys. Lett. **85**,
2851 (2004); E. Bustarret, J. Kacmarcik, C. Marcenat, E. Gheeraert, C.
Cytermann, J. Marcus, and T. Klein, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 227005
(2004); V. A. Sidorov (unpublished).
