# Specific-heat anomaly of overdoped Bi1.8Pb0.3Sr1.9CuO

H. Mayama

Y. Okajima

K. Yamaya

Department of Applied Physics, Hokkaido University, Sapporo 060, Japan

7 October 1997

###### Abstract

The temperature dependence of the specific heat of Bi1.8Pb0.3Sr1.9CuO
samples in the overdoped region has been measured between 1.5 and 8 K.
Specific-heat anomalies were observed at T_(c) in two superconducting
samples, while no anomalies were observed in a nonsuperconducting one.
The values of Δ C/γT_(c) were quite small in comparison to the BCS
value, and the electronic specific heat in the superconducting state
near T_(c) exhibited a weak temperature dependence. These findings are
consistent with the impurity effects predicted by the model of d-wave
superconductors proposed by Sun and Maki. Furthermore, we found that the
Sommerfeld constant γ increases with increasing doped carrier from the
superconducting region to the normal metal region, in contrast to the
case of La2_(−x)Sr_(x)CuO₄. [S0163-1829(98)04813-9]

## 1 Introduction

When clarifying the mechanism of high-T_(c) cuprates, the symmetry of
Cooper paring must be determined. Several different experiments
involving angle-resolved photoemission,[1; 2] the tricrystal
superconducting ring,[3] NMR,[4] and the specific heat[5; 6] have
revealed that high-T_(c) cuprates behave as d-wave superconductors.
Theories of d-wave superconductors[7; 8; 9; 10; 11] predict that the
temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat $C_{\rm d}$ is
proportional to T² at T ≪ T_(c) . Furthermore, Maki and Won[12] have
shown that as the impurity content increases, the temperature dependence
of $C_{\rm el}$ changes from the T² type to the (aT + bT³) type. This
behavior is quite different from the exponential dependence of
$C_{\rm el}$ presented by BCS theory. In fact, Momono _et al.[5; 6]_
have observed that the temperature dependence of the $C_{\rm el}$ of
La2_(−x)Sr_(x)Cu1_(−y)Zn_(y)O₄ is proportional to T² at T ≪ T_(c) for
low concentrations of Zn, while for high concentrations of Zn, the
temperature dependence of $C_{\rm el}$ is described well by the sum of
the aT and bT³ terms. Thus the features of the electronic specific heat
at T ≪ T_(c) have been theoretically and experimentally clarified.

Compared to the behavior of $C_{\rm el}$ at T ≪ T_(c) in d-wave
superconductors, few studies have examined the behavior of $C_{\rm el}$
near T_(c) . Sun and Maki[10] have shown theoretically that for the
$C_{\rm el}$ near T_(c) for d-wave superconductors, the value of the
specific-heat anomaly at T_(c) , Δ C/γT_(c) , is significantly smaller
than the BCS value (Δ C/γT_(c) = 1.43) and decreases markedly with
increasing impurity content. Here Δ C is the jump in $C_{\rm el}$ at
T_(c) and γ is the Sommerfeld constant. The measurement of Δ C is also
important for the determination of the pairing symmetry and plays a
significant role in the phase transition from the pseudogap state to the
superconducting state. The existence of the pseudogap is well known in
high-T_(c) cuprates,[2; 13] especially in the underdoped region, where
the formation of the pseudogap starts at a temperature well above T_(c)
, increases in magnitude with decreasing temperature, and then finally
agrees with the superconducting gap at T_(c) .[2] Therefore, the finite
superconducting gap is already open at T_(c) , which is clearly
different from the normal superconducting transition. To investigate the
specific-heat anomaly at the superconducting transition from the
pseudogap state, we first need to clarify the behavior of the jump in
$C_{\rm el}$ at the superconducting transition from the normal state
without the pseudogap for the d-wave superconductor.

To determine experimentally the value of Δ C/γT_(c) for high-T_(c)
cuprates, it is important to use samples with low T_(c) (∼ 10 K),
because in superconductors with a relatively high T_(c) of above 30 K, a
contribution of the electronic term to the whole specific heat is so
small that it is difficult to simultaneously determine Δ C and γ. Among
high-T_(c) cuprates, the Bi2Sr2CuO_(y) system is known to undergo the
superconducting transition at low temperature (T_(c)∼ 10 K). So far,
several groups[14; 15; 16] have reported the temperature dependence of
the specific heat through the T_(c) of Bi2Sr2CuO_(y) systems. Yamada _et
al.[14]_ and Yu and Frank[15] have observed no anomalies in the specific
heat at T_(c) , while Nyeanchi _et al.[16]_ have observed a
significantly large jump in the specific heat at T_(c) . Since some
contradictions exist among their results, the value of Δ C/γT_(c) has
not yet been experimentally defined.

In the present paper, we report the specific-heat anomalies observed at
T_(c) in the overdoped region of Bi1.8Pb0.3Sr1.9CuO_(y) where the
pseudogap is not formed above T_(c) . The values of Δ C/γT_(c) were
significantly smaller and the temperature dependence of the $C_{\rm el}$
below T_(c) was markedly weaker compared with those observed in the BCS
superconductor. These results are consistent with the effect of
impurities predicted in the model of d-wave superconductors proposed by
Sun and Maki.[10] Using the specific-heat anomalies at T_(c) and the
temperature dependence of $C_{\rm el}$ in the superconducting state near
T_(c) , we show that the superconducting Bi1.8Pb0.3Sr1.9CuO_(y) in the
overdoped region is a d-wave superconductor. In addition, the
relationship between T_(c) , γ, and carrier concentration in the
overdoped region of Bi1.8Pb0.3Sr1.9CuO_(y) behaves differently from that
of the La2_(−x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ system.[5]

## 2 Experiments

The Bi1.8Pb0.3Sr1.9CuO_(y) sample was prepared from Bi2O3, PbO2, SrCO3,
and CuO powders of 99.99-99.99

## III Results and Discussion

The formation of the single phase was confirmed by x-ray diffraction.
The lattice constants (_a_ = 5.382 A, b = 5.326 A, c = 24.627 A) of the
nonsuperconducting sample agreed with those previously reported.17

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of the magnetization of
Bi18Pb03Sr19CuO3. The open triangle and circle correspond to the data of
the sample sintered in air (No. 121N sample) and that of the sample
annealed in an argon atmosphere (No. 121S sample), respectively. The
Meissner signal observed in the No. 121S sample was about 20

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of the resistivity of the No.
121N and No. 121S samples. The resistivity of the No. 121N sample
decreases with decreasing temperature. No rapid decrease in resistivity
is observed in the temperature region above 4.2 K. On the other hand,
the resistivity of the No. 121S sample decreases rapidly near the
temperature corresponding to the onset of the Meissner signal, although
the temperature dependence of the resistivity in the high-temperature
range is almost the same as that of the No. 121N sample. The temperature
dependences of resistivity at low temperature for both samples are
consistent with the result of the Meissner signal shown in Fig. 1. The
temperature dependence of resistivity for the No. 121N sample shows
negative curvature, which is a common feature for samples in the
overdoped region.18,19 In the present study, the temperature dependence
of resistivity exhibits negative curvature, even for the No. 121S
sample, although this dependence is weaker than that seen for the No.
121N sample. This indicates that the No. 121S sample remains in the
overdoped region when the carrier is reduced from the No. 121N sample in
the overdoped region. Thus both No. 121N and No. 121S samples are in the
overdoped region.

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of the specific heat of the
No. 121N sample in which _C/T_ is plotted as a function of T2. As
temperature decreases, the specific heat decreases smoothly without any
anomalies, but cannot be described as a straight line of _C/T_ = g +
_bT_2 as shown in Fig. 3(a). The deviation from the straight line is
observed in both the low- and high-temperature ranges, indicating that
the specific heat of the No. 121N sample cannot be simply represented by
only two terms of the electronic specific heat (_gT_3).

Assuming that the deviation in the low-temperature range is
Schottky-type specific heat (_A/T_2) due to magnetic impurities and that
the deviation in the high-temperature range is the contribution from
anharmonic lattice vibration (_bT_5), the specific heat of the No. 121N
sample is represented well by the following equation:

C = γT + βT³ + δT⁵ + A/T².

The values of each coefficient calculated by Eq. (1) are g = 8.7 (mJ/mol
K2), b = 1.8 (mJ/mol K4), d = 1.5 x 10-2 (mJ/mol K6), and A = 31.1
(mJ/mol K-1). Using these values, the temperature dependence of each
contribution to the

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the resistivity for Bi18Pb03Sr19CuO3
superconducting (No. 121_S_) and nonsuperconducting (No. 121_N_)
samples.

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility for
Bi18Pb03Sr19CuO3 superconducting (No. 121S, open circle) and
nonsuperconducting (No. 121N, open triangle) samples.

specific heat is calculated. In Fig. 3(b) the results are represented by
the solid lines. We find that the contribution of the lattice specific
heat (βT³ + δT⁵) to the total is significantly larger than the others,
especially in the high-temperature range above 5 K, where it is over 80

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of electronic specific heat
$C_{\rm el}$, which is obtained by subtracting the contributions of
lattice specific heat and Schottky-type specific heat (A/T²) from the
total specific heat (C). The $C_{\rm el}/T$ obtained is constant within
8.7±1.9 (mJ/mol K²) over the whole temperature range measured. Wide
scattering in the data of the electronic specific heat may be due to the
large contribution of the lattice terms to the total specific heat.

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of the specific heat of the
superconducting sample (No. 1215) in which C/T is plotted as a function
of T². As a whole, the C/T versus T² curve is similar to that obtained
for the nonsuperconducting sample (No. 121N) except that a hump appeared
around 4.5 K. In the inset of Fig. 5 in which d(C/T)/d(T²) is plotted as
a function of T², a dip is clearly evident around T² = 23 K² and the
corresponding temperature agrees with T_(c) = 4.7 K. This indicates that
the hump is the specific-heat anomaly due to the superconducting
transition. The specific-heat anomaly with the hump is also observed in
our other superconducting sample (No. 123S) with T_(c) = 4.8 K. Our
result of the specific-heat anomaly at T_(c) disagrees with the earlier
works of Yamada _et al._, [14] Yu and Frank, [15] and Nycanli _et al._,
[16] Yamada _et al._, [14] and Yu and Frank [15] have reported that no
anomaly in the specific heat appears at T_(c) in the
Bi₂₁Sr_(1.85)CuO_(6 − δ) and Bi_(2.05)Pb_(0.05)Sr_(1.5)CuO_(6 + δ)
systems, respectively, although the Meissner signal is observed at T_(c)
. On the other hand, Nyeanchi _et al._[16] have reported a significantly
large jump in the specific heat at T_(c) in the Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(6 + δ)
system, whose value is one order larger than that observed here. These
discrepancies will be discussed later in connection with the temperature
dependence of the specific heat.

In order to obtain each contribution to the total specific heat, the
temperature dependence of the specific heat was fitted using Eq. (1)
except for the temperature range near T_(c) where the specific-heat
anomaly appears. The values obtained were γ = 6.0 (mJ/mol K²), β = 2.1
(mJ/mol K⁴), δ = 1.1 × 10⁻² (mJ/mol K⁶), and A = 40.0 (mJ/mol K⁻¹). It
is worth comparing the values obtained here with those reported
previously by Yamada _et al._[14] and Yu and Frank, [15] because the
temperature range measured is almost the same (from 1.5 to ca. 10 K) and
the temperature dependence of C is well represented by Eq. (1) or by an
equation of C = γT + βT³ + A/T². Our value for A is less than half of
their values, although values for γ, β, and δ are almost the same.

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat for a
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.35)Sr_(1.5)CuO_(γ) nonsuperconducting sample (No. 121N) in
a $C_{\rm el}/T$ vs T² plot. The solid line is described by Eq. (1).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the specific heat for a
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.35)Sr_(1.5)CuO_(γ) superconducting sample (No. 1215). The
inset shows the d(C/T)/d(T²) vs T² curve.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the specific heat for a
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.35)Sr_(1.5)CuO_(γ) nonsuperconducting sample (No. 121N) in
a C/T vs T² plot. The solid lines are described by the function of
C/T = γ⁺βT² (a) and by Eq. (1) (b).

This suggests a small amount of magnetic impurity in our samples, which
may have resulted in the appearance of the specific-heat anomaly at
T_(c) . On the other hand, Nycanchi _et al._[16] have reported that the
C measured from 0.1 to 5 K is represented well by the equation
C = aT^(n) + βT³ + A/T² with n = 0.75. However, because the temperature
range measured and the temperature dependence of C in their study differ
markedly from ours, no direct comparison can be made. At the present
time, therefore, the reason for anomalous large jump in C at T_(c)
reported by Nyeanchi _et al._[16] remains unclear.

The $C_{\rm el}$ of the superconducting sample (No. 121S) was evaluated
by subtracting the contributions of lattice and Schottky anomalies from
the total specific heat, which is the same method used for the
nonsuperconducting sample. Figure 6 shows the temperature dependence of
$C_{\rm el}/T$ of No. 121S. The data show scattering due to a large
contribution of lattice specific heat as in the case of the
nonsuperconducting sample. However, we see that the $C_{\rm el}/T$
changes significantly around T_(c) ; above T_(c) , $C_{\rm el}/T$ ( = γ)
is constant within 6.0 ± 1.4 (mJ/mol K²), but at T_(c) a rapid increase
in $C_{\rm el}$ is observed. When the shape of the specific-heat anomaly
at T_(c) is approximated as a step, the value of the specific-heat jump
ΔC is estimated to be 17.2 (mJ/mol K) and, correspondingly, ΔC/γT_(c) is
0.60. The value of ΔC is clearly larger than the scattering of
$C_{\rm el}$ measured in the normal state. A similar result was obtained
for our other superconducting sample (No. 123S) as shown in Fig. 6(b),
in which the values for ΔC and ΔC/γT_(c) are 15.6 (mJ/mol K) and 0.55,
respectively. These results indicate that the anomaly in $C_{\rm el}$
observed here is due to the superconducting transition of
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.3)Sr_(1.9)CuO₃. Notably, the value of ΔC/γT_(c) obtained
here is quite small, less than half of the BCS value (1.43).

The theory of d-wave superconductors proposed by Sun and Maki[10] can be
used to help explain the small value of ΔC/γT_(c) . They investigated
theoretically the relationship between C_(s)/γT_(c0) and T/T_(c0), where
C_(s) , γ, and T_(c0) are the electronic specific heat in the
superconducting state, the Sommerfeld constant, and the superconducting
transition temperature in the absence of impurities, respectively. Their
result shows that the magnitudes of ΔC/γT_(c) and T_(c) decrease
remarkably with increasing impurities. The calculated value of ΔC/γT_(c)
is very small (0.95) even for a clean d-wave superconductor compared to
the BCS value (1.43) and decreases to 0.5 for samples containing
impurities with Γ/Δ₀₀ = 0.2, where Γ is given by the ratio
[Γ = n_(i)/πN(0)] of the impurity concentration n_(i) and the density of
states at the Fermi energy per spin, N(0) , and Δ₀₀ is the energy gap at
T = 0 K for a clean d-wave superconductor. Our small value of ΔC/γT_(c)
( = 0.55 - 0.60) just lies on impurity concentrations of between Γ/Δ₀₀=
0.1 and 0.2. Since the Schottky anomaly observed in the specific heat
suggests the existence of magnetic impurities in our sample, our
experimental results are consistent with the theoretical ones for the
impurity effects on d-wave superconductors proposed by Sun and Maki.[10]

To compare our experimental result on the temperature dependence of
$C_{\rm el}/\gamma T$ in the superconducting state with the theoretical
behavior proposed by Sun and Maki, $C_{\rm el}/\gamma T$ as a function
of the normalized temperature T/T_(c) was recalculated for various
impurity contents using the relationship between C_(s)/γT_(c0) and
T/T_(c0) shown by Sun and Maki (see Fig. 5 in Ref. 10). In Fig. 7, the
calculated results are shown with our experimental result and show that
the temperature depen

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat for a
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.3)Sr_(1.9)CuO₃ superconducting sample, No. 121S (a) and
No. 123S (b). The values of ΔC/γT_(c) are 0.60 and 0.55 for No. 121S and
No. 123S, respectively.

Figure 7: Normalized temperature dependence of the ratio of the
electronic specific heat in the superconducting state and γT for various
concentrations of impurities. The solid lines represent the results
calculated using the theory of Sun and Maki (Ref. 10). The values of
ΔC/γT_(c) are 0.95, 0.77, 0.57, and 0.34 for Γ/Δ₀₀= 0.0, 0.1, 0.2, and
0.3, respectively. The electronic specific heat for the
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.3)Sr_(1.9)CuO₃ superconducting sample (No. 121S) is shown
as open circles.

dence of $C_{\rm d}/\gamma T$ becomes weak with increasing impurity
concentration. Our result near T_(c) agrees with the calculated one
between Γ/Δ₀₀= 0.1 and 0.2, although it deviates from the theoretical
results in the low-temperature region due to the influence of the
Schottky anomaly. The temperature dependence of $C_{\rm d}/\gamma T$ in
the superconducting state is also consistent with the impurity effects
for d-wave superconductors proposed by Sun and Maki,[10] in addition to
the result of the jump in $C_{\rm d}$ at T_(c) . Thus the jump in
$C_{\rm d}$ at T_(c) and the temperature dependence of $C_{\rm d}$ near
T_(c) as well as the temperature dependence of $C_{\rm d}$ at
T≪T_(c),[5, 6] which has been reported previously, argue for high-T_(c)
cuprates being d-wave superconductors.

Next, we discuss the relationship between T_(c) , γ, and doped carrier
content. According to the results obtained by Yamada _et al._,[14] as
the carrier content increases from the underdoped region to the
overdoped one, T_(c) increases initially and then decreases; it shows
the typical curve of T_(c) versus carrier in high-T_(c) cuprates, while
γ increases smoothly with increasing carrier (see Figs. 6 and 8 in Ref.
[14]). In our case, as shown in Figs. 4 and 6, the value of γ of the
superconducting sample is smaller than that of the nonsuperconducting
sample. Since our superconducting sample in the overdoped region was
produced by the reduction of carriers from the nonsuperconducting
sample, γ increases with increasing doped carrier in contrast with the
decrease in T_(c) . Thus we find that our result of the relationship
between T_(c) , γ, and carrier content is in good agreement with that
obtained by Yamada _et al.[14]_ Therefore, in the nonsuperconducting
overdoped region of Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.3)Sr_(1.9)CuO_(y) , γ increases with
increasing carrier content. This is inconsistent with the result[5] in
the nonsuperconducting overdoped region of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, in
which γ decreases with increasing carrier content. This suggests that
the relationship between γ and carrier content is not given universally,
at least in the overdoped region of high-T_(c) cuprates.

Finally, it should be emphasized that the specific-heat anomaly obtained
here is due to the superconducting transition from the normal state, but
not from the pseudogap state. If the superconducting transition occurs
in the underdoped region where the pseudogap state is formed well above
T_(c) , the behavior of the specific-heat anomaly at T_(c) might be
different from the behavior predicted by the Sun-Maki theory[10] which
applies to a d-wave superconductor without the pseudogap. It is widely
accepted that understanding the pseudogap is important in relation to
the mechanism of high-T_(c) cuprates. However, at present, the
specific-heat anomaly at the superconducting transition from the
pseudogap state is not sufficiently clear. We believe that the present
result will give us a starting point to investigate superconductivity
from the pseudogap state. Current research is focusing on the
specific-heat measurement of Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.3)Sr_(1.9)CuO_(y) in the
underdoped region.

## IV Conclusion

We have investigated the temperature dependence of the specific heat of
superconducting and nonsuperconducting samples of
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.3)Sr_(1.9)CuO_(y) in the overdoped region. The temperature
dependence of the specific heat of the nonsuperconducting sample is
accurately presented as C= γT+ βT³ + βT⁵+ A/T², while in the
superconducting sample, a specific-heat anomaly is observed at T_(c) ,
in addition to the temperature dependence of C seen for the
nonsuperconducting sample. The magnitude of the specific-heat anomaly at
T_(c) , ΔC/γT_(c) , is 0.55-0.60, which is less than half of the BCS
value. The electronic specific heat in the superconducting state near
T_(c) shows a weak temperature dependence compared with BCS behavior.
The quite small value of ΔC/γT_(c) and the weak temperature dependence
of the electronic specific heat in the superconducting state are
consistent with the effects of impurities predicted by the model of
d-wave superconductors proposed by Sun and Maki. These findings
demonstrate that superconducting Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.3)Sr_(1.9)CuO_(y) in the
overdoped region is a d-wave superconductor.

The value of γ for the superconducting sample was smaller than that for
the nonsuperconducting sample; that is, γ increased with increasing
doped carrier, because the superconducting sample was prepared by the
reduction of carrier content from the nonsuperconducting sample. The
relationship between T_(c) , γ, and carrier concentration in the
overdoped region of Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.3)Sr_(1.9)CuO_(y) shows behavior that
contrasts with the La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ system. This suggests that the
relationship between T_(c) and carrier content is similar for many
high-T_(c) cuprates, but that between γ and carrier content is not.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank Professor S. Tanda for useful discussions. This work was
supported by a Grant-In-Aid for Scientific Research on Priority Areas,
_Anomalous Metallic State near the Mott Transition,_ from the Ministry
of Education, Science, Sports and Culture.

## References

* [1] Z.-X. Shen, D. S. Dessau, B. O. Wells, D. M. King, W. E. Spicer,
A. J. Arko, D. Marshall, L. W. Lombardo, A. Kapitulnik, P. Dickinson, S.
Doniach, J. DiCarlo, T. Loeser, and C. H. Park, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**,
1553 (1993). * [2] H. Ding, T. Yokota, J. C. Campuzano, T. Takahashi, M.
Randeria, M. R. Norman, T. Mochiku, K. Kadowaki, and J. Giapintzakis,
Nature (London) **382**, 51 (1996). * [3] C. C. Tsuei, J. R. Kirtley, C.
C. Chi, Lock See Yu-Jahnes, A. Gupta, T. Shaw, J. Z. Sun, and M. B.
Ketchen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 593 (1994). * [4] S. Ohsugi, Y.
Kitaoka, M. Kyogaku, K. Ishida, K. Asayama, and T. Ohtani, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **61**, 3054 (1992). * [5] N. Momono, M. Ido, T. Nakano, M. Oda, Y.
Okajima, and K. Yamaya, Physica C **233**, 395 (1994). * [6] N. Momono
and M. Ido, Physica C **264**, 311 (1996). * [7] P. J. Hirschfeld and P.
Wolfle, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 83 (1988). * [8] M. Prohammer, A.
Perez-Gonzalez, and J. P. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 15 152
(1993). * [9] S. Schmitt-Rink, K. Miyake, and C. M. Varma, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **57**, 2575 (1986).

* [10] Y. Sun and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 6059 (1995). * [11] T.
Hotta, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **62**, 274 (1993). * [12] K. Maki and H. Won,
Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) **5**, 320 (1996). * [13] J. W. Loram, K. A. Mirza,
J. R. Cooper, and W. Y. Liang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1740 (1993). *
[14] Y. Yamada, T. Okamoto, U. Mizutani, and I. Hirabayashi, Physica C
**232**, 269 (1994). * [15] M. K. Yu and J. P. Franck, Physica C
**223**, 57 (1994). * [16] E. B. Nyeanchi, D. F. Brewer, T. E.
Hargreaves, A. L. Thomson, Cao Liezhao, and Chen Zhao-Jia, Physica C
**235-240**, 1755 (1994). * [17] A. Maeda, Y. Kato, T. Shibauchi, Y.
Nakajima, H. Watanabe, and K. Uchinokura, J. Appl. Phys. **28**, L1549
(1989). * [18] H. Takagi, T. Ido, S. Ishibashi, M. Uota, and S. Uchida,
Phys. Rev. B **40**, 2254 (1989). * [19] Y. Kubo, Y. Shimakawa, T.
Manako, and H. Igarashi, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7875 (1991).
