Suppression of superconductivity in Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂: Evidence of
static magnetic moments induced by nonmagnetic impurities

N. E. Sluchanko

nes@lt.gpi.ru 1A. N. Azarevich

M. A. Anisimov

A. V. Bogach

S. Yu. Gavrilkin

M. I. Gilmanov

V. V. Glushkov

S. V. Demishev

A. L. Khoroshilov

A. V. Dukhnenko

K. V. Mitsen

N. Yu. Shitsevalova

V. B. Filippov

V. V. Voronov

K. Flachbart

###### Abstract

Based on low-temperature resistivity, heat capacity, and magnetization
investigations, we show that the unusually strong suppression of
superconductivity in Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ (x< 8

2469-9950/2016/93(8)/085130 2016 2469-9950/2016/93(8)/085130
2469-9950/2016/93(8)/085130 2469-9950/2016/93(8)/085130
2469-9950/2016/93(8)/085130 2469-9950/2016/93(8)/085130(7)
2469-9950/2016/93(8)/085130(7) 2469-9950/2016/93(8)/085130(7)
2469-9950/2016/93(8)/085130(7)

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity at T_(c)≈ 39 K in MgB₂[1] has
stimulated a significant interest into the studies of a wide class of
the alkaline-earth, rare-earth, and transition-metal borides. Among
them, in the family of higher borides RB₁₂, zirconium dodecaboride
(ZrB₁₂) is a BCS superconductor with the highest T_(c)≈ 6 K [2,3]. An
intriguing detail found in ZrB₁₂ is the formation of Cooper pairs
through quasilocal vibrations involving Zr⁴⁺ ions located within
truncated B₂₄ octadhedrons in the UB₁₂-type fcc crystal structure [2, 3,
4, 5]. In studies of the Einstein phonon mediated superconductivity in
ZrB₁₂, the authors of Refs. [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9] argue that s-wave
pairing is characteristic for this compound, and that in this case the
Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ is located in the nearest vicinity to the
threshold value κ_(c) = 2^(−1/2). Moreover, a crossover from type-I to
type-II/1 [10] superconductivity with decreasing temperature was deduced
in Ref. [3] from heat capacity and magnetization measurements. On the
other hand, in Ref. [11] the superconductivity in ZrB₁₂ was interpreted
in terms of d-wave pairing and a two-gap type-II regime was identified
with the parameters κ_(p) = 3.8 and κ_(d) = 5.8. Additionally, a large
size pseudogap (Δ∼ 7.3 meV) has been detected by employing high
resolution photoemission spectroscopy in ZrB₁₂ above T_(c), and the
proximity to the quantum fluctuation regime was predicted from _ab
initio_ band structure calculations [12]. Certain similarities with
cuprate high-temperature superconductors (HTSC) may be also supposed to
revive interest in studies of this low-temperature superconductor.

In the case of nonmagnetic impurity substitutions and their impact on
superconducting properties, one can choose between various scenarios,
because the pair-breaking mechanism for these defects in various models
differs. According to Anderson’s theorem [13,14] and its extension to
non-s-wave superconductivity (see, e.g., Refs. [15,16]), it is expected
that already a small amount of nonmagnetic impurities can dramatically
suppress superconductivity by pair breaking in the case of an
anisotropic gap in a d-wave superconductor. Moreover, experiments on
cuprates reveal [16] that a spinless impurity (Zn, Li, etc.) introduced
into a HTSC host produces a large and spatially extended alternating
magnetic polarization in its vicinity. Based on NMR and muon spin
rotation (μSR) spectra, it has been demonstrated that this
impurity-induced magnetization on the nearest-neighbor Cu atoms in
cuprates is associated with a dynamic moment [16].

In the case of RB₁₂, the replacement of nonmagnetic ions of Zr by Lu
produces an about 15 times’ reduction of the superconducting transition
temperature (T_(c)≈ 0.4 K for LuB₁₂[4, 9,17]), and the origin of this
large T_(c) suppression for these two compounds with similar conduction
bands and crystalline structures is not yet clarified. Indeed, inelastic
neutron scattering studies of the phonon spectra in LuB₁₂ and ZrB₁₂[5]
have detected noticeable, but not dramatic, changes in the position of
an almost dispersionless quasilocal mode (15 and 17.5 meV,
correspondingly), which was proposed to be responsible for Cooper
pairing. Only a moderate difference in the electronic density of states
of these two compounds can be caused by filling the wide enough
conduction band (∼1.6-2 eV) when Lu³⁺ ions are replaced by Zr⁴⁺ ions in
the RB₁₂ unit cell, resulting in an elevation of the Fermi level E_(F)
of ZrB₁₂ in comparison with LuB₁₂ by about 0.3-0.4 eV (see Refs. [12,18]
for details).

Here, we probed the evolution of the superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) and the normal state parameters for substitutional
solid solutions Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ using resistivity, heat capacity,
and both dynamic and static magnetization measurements. It will be shown
that the nonmagnetic Lu impurity substitution (having a 4f¹⁴
configuration) produces a strong static spin polarization in the
vicinity of lutetium ions. Simultaneously with the emergence of static
magnetic moments with a value of about 6μ_(B) per Lu³⁺ ion (¹S₀ ground
state), the obtained experimental results exhibit a strong suppression
of superconductivity in Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂.

## II Experimental details

Studies of the resistivity, transverse magnetoresistance and Hall
effect, heat capacity, magnetization, and electron spin resonance (ESR)
of high-quality single crystals of Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ solid solutions
with x < 8% were carried out at temperatures in the range 1.8-300 K, in
magnetic fields of up to 90 kOe (H∥⟨001⟩). A standard dc five-probe
technique was applied for resistivity and Hall effect investigations
with the orientation of measuring current I∥⟨110⟩. The magnetization and
heat capacity were measured using a Quantum Design physical properties
measurement system (PPMS-9). High-frequency electron spin resonance
(ESR) studies of the solid solution with x = 7.4% were made using a
specially constructed spectrometer with a cylindrical cavity, operating
at the transverse electric TE₀₁₁ mode and with a quality factor Q ∼ 10⁴.
Further details about the installation and measurement technique may be
found elsewhere [19].

The single crystals of Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ were grown by vertical
crucible-free inductive floating zone melting in an inert gas
atmosphere. To verify both the quality of the samples and the Lu
content, x-ray diffraction, Laue backscattering patterns (see Fig. 1,
for example), and microanalysis techniques were used. For all
Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ single crystals the Lu/Zr ratio was estimated using
a scanning electron microscope equipped with an energy dispersion
microprobe system (JEOL JXA-8200 EPMA; electron probe spot 1 μm²). The
measurements were carried out at several points of the lateral cross
section (periphery r = 1, middle r = 1/2, center r = 0) on both sides of
the single crystal rods. Individual binary borides (ZrB₂, ZrB₁₂, ZrB₅₁,
and LuB₁₂) were used as reference samples. The accuracy of the
microprobe analysis according to the registration certificate was
several hundred ppm. The results of the analysis have shown that the
single crystal real compositions differ from its initial nominal ones
and vary slightly along the crystal axis, showing no dispersion in the
lateral cross section.

## III Results and discussion

Temperature dependences of resistivity ρ [Fig. 2(a)], magnetization M
[Fig. 2(b)], and heat capacity C [Fig. 2(c)] show superconducting phase
transitions with T_(c) in the range 4.5-6 K for Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂
(x < 8%) solid solutions. The resistivity ρ(T) drop to zero below T_(c)
is accompanied both by the appearance of a Meissner state diamagnetic
response on M(T) and M(H, T₀ = 2 K) [Fig. 2(e)] curves and the stepwise
changes in the specific heat C(T) [see Figs. 2(c), 3(a), and 3(b), H = 0
curves]. With the increase of lutetium content both the residual
resistivity and the normal state specific heat rise dramatically [by a
factor of 4; see Figs. 2(a), and 3(a), and 3(b)], and the latter one
demonstrates a combination of superconducting steplike and Schottky-type
anomalies [see, e.g., Fig. 3(b), H = 0 curve for x = 7.4%). It is worth
noting that the Schottky-type anomaly for Lu_(0.074)Zr_(0.926)B₁₂ [Fig.
3(b), H = 0] is very similar to the one observed previously for LuB₁₂[9,
20, 21], and it may be interpreted in terms of the formation of
double-well potentials in the disordered RB₁₂ matrix of these cage-glass
compounds. Comprehensive investigations of high-quality single crystals
of LuB₁₂ with various boron isotope compositions recently allowed one to
find a new disordered cage-glass phase at liquid nitrogen temperatures
[9, 20]. It was shown [9, 20, 21, 22] that the combination of loosely
bound states of rare-earth/transition-metal ions in the rigid boron
sublattice

Figure 2: Temperature dependences of (a) resistivity, (b)
zero-field-cooled magnetization at H = 3–20 Oe, (c) specific heat in the
vicinity of T_(c), (d) suppression of superconductivity T_(c)(x), and
(e) the Meissner effect M(H, T₀ = 2 K) in Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂. In (e), a
slight increase of magnetization above the linear M(H) dependence at
H > 100 Oe is caused by a small tilt of the crystal in comparison with
the applied magnetic field H. (f) ESR spectra measured at f = 60 GHz for
a Lu_(0.074)Zr_(0.926)B₁₂ single crystal.

Figure 1: (a) X-ray diffraction (from the crushed single crystal) and
(b) Laue pattern of the Lu_(0.074 ± 0.001)Zr_(0.926 ± 0.001)B₁₂ single
crystal (real composition) received from CoK_(x) radiation with a Fe
filter. The crystal was grown using a [100]-oriented seed. The deviation
between the growth and [100] direction is about 3^(∘).

of RB₁₂ compounds, together with randomly arranged boron vacancies (with
a concentration of ∼1

Then, coming back to the discussion of the Schottky-type anomaly and the
about fourfold increase of C(T, H=0) at low temperatures [Figs. 3(a) and
3(b)], it is worth noting that evidently these features cannot be
considered as caused by renormalization of the Sommerfeld coefficient of
the electronic heat capacity. It will be shown below that the C(T)
maximum increases essentially in the magnetic field and that this
increase should be attributed to an additional, magnetic component of
heat capacity.

The T_(e)(x) dependence for Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ solid solutions is
summarized in Fig. 2(d). T_(e) was defined as a midpoint of resistivity
(magnetization) changes within the transition to the superconducting
state. It should be stressed that the suppression of superconductivity
by Lu substitution is unusually strong (∼0.21 K/at.

In an external magnetic field the amplitude of the low-temperature
Schottky-type anomaly increases essentially and C(T) maximum moves to
higher temperatures [for example, Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) show the data for
x = 0.7

Figure 4: (a) Crystal structure of Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ compounds. The
NaCl-type unit cell is built from R³⁺(R⁴⁺) ions and B₁₂
cubo-octahedrons. (b) The first coordination sphere of the R ion is
arranged as a truncated octahedron B₂₄. For clarity, B₁₂ and B₂₄
clusters are shown only along the [100] direction of the lattice. The
arrangement of R and B atoms along the [110] direction and in the (100)
cross section is presented in (c). A lattice defect (boron vacancy) is
shown by a small open circle (c). Broken R-B bonds in the vicinity of
the boron vacancy cause displacements of the nearest R ions—they are
pushed away from the defect by about 0.4 Å [23], forming a double-well
potential (d) with a barrier of ΔE ∼ T^(*)[9; 20].

Figure 3: Temperature dependences of specific heat for
Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ with (a) x = 0.7

magnetic contribution to heat capacity and it may be separated from
vibrational and electron heat capacity terms following the approach
developed in Refs. [20, 21]. In particular, we take here the specific
heat C(T, H = 0) dependence of ZrB₁₂ as a reference curve with a
correction of the Einstein term by changing Θ_(E) from
Θ_(E)(ZrB₁₂) ≈ 200 K to Θ_(E)(LuB₁₂) ≈ 162 K, in accordance with a Lu
concentration increase in Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ solid solutions [21]. The
resulting C_(m)(T, H₀) dependences for these two Lu contents are
presented in Figs. 3(c) and 3(d), together with their approximation [see
the solid lines in Figs. 3(c) and 3(d)] based on a four-level Schottky
relation with a doublet ground state [see the scheme in Fig. 3(c)],

$$C_{m} = N_{m}\,R\beta^{2}\frac{2\Delta E_{m1}^{2}\,e^{-\beta\Delta E_{m1} }+2\Delta E_{m2}^{2}\,e^{-\beta\Delta E_{m2}}+(\Delta E_{m1}-\Delta E_{m2})^{2} \,e^{-\beta(\Delta E_{m1}+\Delta E_{m2})}}{(g_{0}+e^{-\beta\Delta E_{m1}}+e^{- \beta\Delta E_{m2}})^{2}},$$
β = 1/T  (k_(B) = 1),
(1)

where R and k_(B) denote the universal gas and Boltzmann constants,
correspondingly, g₀ = 2 is the degeneracy of the ground state, and N_(m)
is the concentration of magnetic sites. It is worth noting that these
C_(m)(T, H₀) anomalies are broad enough to be fitted by the simplest
Schottky relation for a single two-level system (TLS). So, instead of
two different TLS₁ and TLS₂, we have used here a four-level scheme [Fig.
3(c)] both to reduce the number of fitting parameters and to choose the
correct concentration N_(m) of magnetic sites. Both splitting energies
ΔE_(m1)(H) and ΔE_(m2)(H) and the concentration of magnetic Schottky
sites N_(m)(H) as deduced from the approximation (1) are shown in Figs.
3(e) and 3(f). The slope of the straight lines in Figs. 3(e) and 3(f)
(in the range H < 40 kOe) allows one to determine from the relation
ΔE_(mi) = μ_(B)g_(i)H/k_(B) the g factors g₁ ∼ 3.2 and g₂ ∼ 7.8 for both
studied crystals (see Table I). Moreover, the concentration of N_(m) is
found to be equal within experimental accuracy to lutetium content x in
Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ solid solutions. From these results it may be
certainly concluded that magnetic sites are created by Lu impurities
(Table I).

The magnetic response in the normal state of Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂
superconductors was investigated by magnetization M(H, T) studies.
Figures 6(a) and 6(b) demonstrate the temperature dependences M(H₀, T)
recorded at H₀ = 2 kOe and the magnetization versus magnetic field
curves M(H, T₀) measured at T₀ = 2 K, correspondingly. It can be seen
from Fig. 6(a) that a small (∼4 × 10⁻⁴μ_(B)/Zr) and about
temperature-independent Pauli-like paramagnetic response, which is
typical for ZrB₁₂, changes into a Curie-Weiss-type magnetic signal
originating from magnetic moments induced by the Lu substitution.
Fitting the temperature dependences by the Curie-Weiss relation

M = χ₀H + N_(m)μ_(eff)²H/[3k_(B)(T − Θ)],
(2)

where χ₀ is the temperature-independent susceptibility, μ_(eff) the
effective magnetic moment in Bohr magnetons μ_(B), and Θ is the
Curie-Weiss temperature [see the solid lines in Fig. 6(a)] allows one to
determine the Curie constant and subsequently to estimate the effective
magnetic moment μ_(eff) ∼ 5.7-6.6μ_(B) per Lu ion (see also Table I).
These values are about twice higher compared with the saturated moments
μ_(sat)∼ 3-4μ_(B) per Lu ion obtained from the analysis of magnetization
versus magnetic field dependences [Fig. 6(b)]. Moreover, in the regime
of an isolated magnetic impurity for x = 0.7

M = N_(m)gμ_(B) J B_(J)(gμ_(B) J H/k_(B)T)
(3)

(where B_(J) is the Brillouin function, and J = 3/2 is the angular
momentum of the quartet state), with N_(m) ≈ 0.54x, g ≈ 3.5. Because of
the equidistant location of four (2J + 1) singlet states in the
Brillouin-type approximation, we obtained a twice reduced estimation for
the concentration of magnetic sites in comparison with N_(m) for the
doublet-singlet-singlet configuration [see Fig. 3(c)]. Simultaneously,
Curie-Weiss-type fitting provides an appropriate value for the g factor
g ≈ 6 of these magnetic states in Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ superconductors.
Moreover, Fig. 2(f) presents also our latest results of an ESR study
performed on a Lu_(0.074)Zr_(0.926)B₁₂ crystal at temperatures

Figure 5: Temperature dependences of Hall coefficient R_(H)(T) for
Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ with (a) x = 1.5

in the range 1.8-10 K. The observed single ESR line allowed us to
estimate the g factor as g = 5.7 ± 0.1 ($H_{\rm{esc}}\approx 7.5$ kOe)
for these oscillating magnetic moments. The detected linewidth ΔH ≈ 2.7
kOe corresponds to a spin relaxation time τ ≈ 2.9 × 10⁻¹⁰ s. It is worth
noting that a similar magnetic component in heat capacity has been
observed in the nonmagnetic Heusler-type compound Fe₂VAl [25],
indicating the presence of Schottky anomalies arising from magnetic
clusters having a moment of 3.7μ_(B) and J = 3/2.

Magnetoresistance Δρ/ρ experiments were performed also in the normal
state (H > 0.8 kOe) to characterize the magnetic moments in these
Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ compounds with metallic conduction. According to
Yosida calculations carried out within the framework of the _s-d_
exchange model, an appearance of negative magnetoresistance (nMR) is
expected in the regime of charge carrier scattering on localized
magnetic moments [26]. The field dependence of nMR is controlled by
local magnetization $M_{\rm{loc}}$ through the relation

$$-\Delta\rho/\rho\sim M_{\rm{loc}}^{2}.$$
(4)

The nMR effect may be considered as an independent argument in favor of
the formation of local moments in a metallic matrix. Figure 7 shows the
results of magnetoresistance measurements on Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂. In the
normal state of ZrB₁₂ the main contribution to Δρ/ρ(H, T₀) is positive
and it can be described with good accuracy by the well-known relation
$\Delta\rho/\rho\sim\mu_{\rm{D}}^{2}H^{2}$, where $\mu_{\rm{D}}$ is the
carriers’ drift mobility. Both the substitutional disorder and the
cage-glass effect in Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ decrease dramatically both the
mobility and amplitude of the positive component when the Lu
concentration increases [Fig. 7(a)]. For x ≥ 1.5

$$\Delta\rho/\rho=\mu_{\rm{D}}^{2}H^{2}-[Ag\mu_{B}JB_{J}(g\mu_{B}JH/k_{B}T)]^{2},$$
(5)

where A ∼ N_(m) is the normalized concentration of these magnetic
moments. Fitting data by relation (5) [see the solid lines in Fig. 7(b)]
allows one to estimate the g factor g ≈ 3.5 for the angular momentum
J = 3/2. The obtained values are in accordance with those deduced above
from the analysis of heat capacity and magnetization (Table I).
Additionally, we have evaluated the behavior of coefficients A(T) and
$\mu_{\rm{D}}(T)$ in (5) [see Figs. 7(c) and 7(d), correspondingly]. As
can be seen from Fig. 7(c), the scattering of charge carriers on
localized moments in the vicinity of impurity sites appears below 8 K
and it increases drastically with decreasing temperature. On the
contrary, the $\mu_{\rm{D}}(T)$ dependence demonstrates only a moderate
elevation (<4

When discussing the possible scenario of the formation of spin-polarized
nanodomains in Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ substitutional solid solutions, it is
worth noting the mechanism of spin-polaron formation proposed for
magnetic rare-earth higher borides with a cage-glass structure. It was
suggested in Ref. [28] that fast quantum oscillations (tunneling) of
magnetic rare-earth ions in a double-well potential lead to spin
polarization of 5d states of the conduction band, and this effect
appears to be very sensitive to an external magnetic field. When taking
into account that in LuB₁₂ the 4 f band is located well below (∼5 eV)
the Fermi level [18,29], there is a strong presumption against the 4 f
nature of these moments in the ZrB₁₂ matrix. Among the possible
scenarios of the formation of magnetic moments in the vicinity of Lu
ions, one can propose the induced spin polarization of 4d(Zr) or 5d(Lu)
states. In this connection we can mention also the analogy with another
Zr-based metallic compound, ZrZn₂, in which a coexistence of
spin-triplet superconductivity with

Figure 6: Dependences of magnetization vs temperature at H₀ = 2 kOe (a)
and vs magnetic field at T₀ = 2 K (b) for Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂.
Approximations by the (a) Curie-Weiss relation [Eq. (2)] and by the (b)
Brillouin dependence [Eq. (3)] are shown by solid lines.

weak itinerant ferromagnetism was suggested [30]. Thus, both Lu-Zr dimer
formation and strong distortions of the crystalline and electronic
structure in the vicinity of Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ which are caused by
nonisovalent Zr⁴⁺ to Lu³⁺ substitution, can be considered as mechanisms
responsible for the creation of double-well potentials, and subsequently
for the formation of magnetic moments on the 4d (5d) states of Zr (Lu)
ions. For any of these two scenarios the size of the induced magnetic
nanodomains may be estimated as comparable with the R − R distance which
is about 5 A in the lattice of Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ dodecaborides. It
should be also stressed that the origin of these many-body states
described by the four-level schema with J = 3/2 both in Ref. [25] and
here is not yet fully clarified. So, the elucidation of the anisotropy
produced by these magnetic clusters needs to be further elaborated.
Turning to the analogy with nonmagnetic impurity-induced _dynamic_
moments in HTSC cuprates, it should be stressed here that the localized
moments found in the present study of Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ are _static_
and that a strong enhancement of spin polarization (exhibiting a
saturation above 40 kOe) is induced by an external magnetic field. Thus,
the pair breaking produced by nonmagnetic Lu³⁺ ions incorporated in
ZrB₁₂ is quite similar to the effect of magnetic impurity doping in
conventional superconductors.

## IV Conclusions

We have observed the formation of static nanosized magnetic moments with
$\mu_{\rm eff}\approx 6\mu_{B}$ per Lu³⁺ ion in the vicinity of
nonmagnetic lutetium impurities in the nonmagnetic Zr-rich matrix of
Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ dodecaborides at low temperatures. According to our
opinion, the strong suppression of superconductivity in
Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ compounds can be attributed to pair breaking arising
in the vicinity of these nanosized magnetic domains. However, for the
correct decision both about the nature of magnetic moments in the ZrB₁₂
matrix and about the mechanism of superconductivity in
Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ with high Lu contents, it will be necessary to
investigate new crystals with x in the ranges 2

###### Acknowledgements.

We would like to thank A. V. Kuznetsov, G. E. Grechnev, A. V. Sememo, P.
Samuely, and S. Gabani for helpful discussions. The study was supported
by RFBR Project No. 15-02-02553a, Young Scientists Grant of the RF
President No. MK-6427.2014.2. The measurements were carried out in the
Shared Facility Centre of P. N. Lebedev Physical Institute of RAS. K.F.
acknowledges partial support by Slovak agencies VEGA (2/0106/13) and
APVV (14-0605).

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] R. Lortz, Y. Wang,
S. Abe, C. Meingast, Yu. B. Paderno, V. Filippov, and A. Junod, Phys.
Rev. B **72**, 024547 (2005). * [3] Y. Wang, R. Lortz, Yu. B. Paderno,
V. Filippov, S. Abe, U. Tutsch, and A. Junod, Phys. Rev. B **72**,
024548 (2005). * [4] J. Teyssier, R. Lortz, A. Petrovic, D. van der
Marel, V. Filippov, and N. Shitsevalova, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 134504
(2008). * [5] A. V. Rybina, K. S. Nemkovski, P. A. Alekseev, J.-M.
Mignot, E. S. Clementyev, M. Johnson, L. Capogna, A. V. Dukhnenko, A. B.
Lyashenko, and V. B. Filippov, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024302 (2010). * [6]
M. I. Tsindlekht, G. I. Leviev, I. Asulin, A. Sharoni, O. Millo, I.
Felner, Yu. B. Paderno, V. B. Filippov, and M. A. Belogolovskii, Phys.
Rev. B **69**, 212508 (2004). * [7] G. I. Leviev, V. M. Genkin, M. I.
Tsindlekht, I. Felner, Yu. B. Paderno, and V. B. Filippov, Phys. Rev. B
**71**, 064506 (2005). * [8] D. Daghero, R. S. Gonnelli, G. A. Ummarino,
A. Calzolari, V. Dellarocca, V. A. Stepanov, V. B. Filippov, and Yu. B.
Paderno, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **17**, S250 (2004). * [9] N.
Sluchanko, S. Gavrilkin, K. Mitsen, A. Kuznetsov, I. Sannikov, V.
Glushkov, S. Demishev, A. Azarevich, A. Bogach, A. Lyashenko, A.
Dukhnenko, V. Filipov, S. Gabani, K. Flachbart, J. Vanacken, G. Zhang,
and V. Moshchalkov, J. Supercond. Novel Magn. **26**, 1663 (2013). *
[10] J. Auer and H. Ullmaier, Phys. Rev. B **7**, 136 (1973).

Figure 7: Magnetic field dependences of normal state magnetoresistance
$\Delta\rho/\rho(H,T_{0})=[\rho(H)-\rho(0.8\,{\rm kOe})]/\rho(0.8\,{\rm kOe})$
(a) for Lu_(x)Zr_(1 − x)B₁₂ with various Lu content at T₀ = 4.2 K, and
(b) for x = 1.5

* [11] V. A. Gasparov, N. S. Sidorov, and I. I. Zver’kova, Phys. Rev. B
**73**, 094510 (2006). * [12] S. Thakur, D. Biswas, N. Sahadev, P. K.
Biswas, G. Balakrishnan, and K. Maiti, Sci. Rep. **3**, 03342 (2013). *
[13] P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **3**, 325 (1959). * [14] A. A.
Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov, Zh. Exp. Theor. Phys. **39**, 1781 (1960)
[Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243 (1961)]. * [15] A. V. Balatsky, I.
Vekhter, and J. X. Zhu, Rev. Mod. Phys. **78**, 373 (2006). * [16] H.
Alloul, J. Bobroff, M. Gabay, and P. J. Hirschfeld, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**81**, 45 (2009). * [17] K. Flachbart, S. Gabani, K. Gloos, M.
Meissner, M. Opel, Yu. Paderno, V. Pavlik, P. Samuely, E. Schuberth, N.
Shitsevalova, K. Siemensmeyer, and P. Szabo, J. Low Temp. Phys. **140**,
339 (2005). * [18] B. Jager, S. Paluch, O. J. Zogat, W. Wolf, P. Herzig,
V. B. Filippov, N. Yu. Shitsevalova, and Yu. B. Paderno, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **18**, 2525 (2006). * [19] A. N. Samarin, A. V. Semeno,
M. I. Gilmanov, V. V. Glushkov, I. I. Lobanova, N. A. Samarin, N. E.
Sluchanko, I. I. Sannikov, N. M. Chubova, V. A. Dyadkin, S. V.
Grigoriev, and S. V. Demishev, Phys. Procedia **71**, 337 (2015). * [20]
N. E. Sluchanko, A. N. Azarevich, A. V. Bogach, I. I. Vlasov, V. V.
Glushkov, S. V. Demishev, A. A. Maksimov, I. I. Tartakovskii, E. V.
Filatov, K. Flachbart, S. Gabani, V. B. Filippov, N. Yu. Shitsevalova,
and V. V. Moshchalkov, J. Exp. Theor. Phys. **113**, 468 (2011). * [21]
N. E. Sluchanko, A. N. Azarevich, S. Yu. Gavrilkin, V. V. Glushkov, S.
V. Demishev, N. Yu. Shitsevalova, and V. B. Filippov, JETP Lett. **98**,
578 (2013). * [22] N. E. Sluchanko, A. N. Azarevich, A. V. Bogach, V. V.
Glushkov, S. V. Demishev, A. V. Kuznetsov, K. S. Lyubshov, V. B.
Filippov, and N. Yu. Shitsevalova, J. Exp. Theor. Phys. **111**, 279
(2010). * [23] A. P. Menushenkov, A. A. Yaroslavtsev, I. A. Zaluzhnyy,
A. V. Kuznetsov, R. V. Chernnikov, N. Yu. Shitsevalova, and V. B.
Filippov, JETP Lett. **98**, 165 (2013). * [24] T. McConville and B.
Serin, Phys. Rev. **140**, A1169 (1965). * [25] C. S. Lue, J. H. Ross,
Jr., C. F. Chang, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **60**, R13941(R)
(1999). * [26] K. Yosida, Phys. Rev. **107**, 396 (1957). * [27] N. E.
Sluchanko, A. L. Khoroshilov, M. A. Anisimov, A. N. Azarevich, A. V.
Bogach, V. V. Glushkov, S. V. Demishev, V. N. Krasnorussky, N. A.
Samarin, N. Yu. Shitsevalova, V. B. Filippov, A. V. Levchenko, G.
Pristas, S. Gabani, and K. Flachbart, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 235104
(2015). * [28] N. E. Sluchanko, Low Temp. Phys. **41**, 544 (2015). *
[29] G. E. Grechnev, A. E. Baranovskiy, V. D. Fil, T. V. Ignatova, I. G.
Kolobov, A. V. Logosha, N. Yu. Shitsevalova, V. B. Filippov, and O.
Eriksson, Low Temp. Phys. **34**, 921 (2008). * [30] C. Pfleiderer, M.
Uhlarz, S. M. Hayden, R. Vollmer, H. V. Lohneysen, N. R. Bernhoeft, and
G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **412**, 58 (2001).
