Field and temperature dependence of the _c_-axis critical current in
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+d single crystals at the melting and two-dimensional
decomposition fields

Sheng Luo, Guang Yang, and C. E. Gough

Superconducting Research Group, University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15
2TT, United Kingdom

28 July 1994

###### Abstract

Measurements of the _V-I_ characteristics and critical currents along
the c axis are reported for a number of small single crystals of
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+d as a function of temperature, magnetic field, and oxygen
stoichiometry. The primary aim of this investigation was to investigate
changes in the _c_-axis resistivity resulting from misalignment of
pancake vortices across superconducting CuO2 planes at the melting and
3D-2D decomposition fields. Although the field dependence of the
critical current is shown to scale with the field at which the 3D-2D
decomposition takes place, no significant change in the field dependence
was observed at either phase transition. This implies a short-range
correlation of the positions of pancake vortices across planes
persisting well above such transitions.

## I Introduction

Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+d (2212-BSCCO) is an extremely anisotropic high-_T_’
superconductor with anisotropy factor
γ = (m_(c)/m_(ph))^(1/2) = λ_(c)/λ_(ab) that can be as large as
300−1000.1-3 Lawrence-Doniach [4] (LD) proposed an appropriate
microscopic model for such superconductors, in which superconductivity
in the weakly superconducting c direction involves Josephson tunneling
between superconducting planes. A single crystal of BSCCO can therefore
be considered as a series array of large-area SIS junctions, with
0.3-mm-thick superconducting CuO2 double-layer electrodes separated by
1.2-nm-thick Bi2Sr2O4 insulating layers. Kleiner _et al._[5] have
reported Josephson tunneling characteristics along the c axis of BSCCO
single crystals in addition to both direct and indirect ac Josephson
effects, providing strong support for such a model.

In the LD model, flux threads through the crystal in the form of
quantized flux pancakes with current largely confined to the CuO2
planes. [6, 7] At low temperatures and magnetic fields, such pancakes in
the absence of pinning will align to form a quasi-three-dimensional (3D)
flux-line lattice essentially identical to the Abrikosov flux-lattice
structure expected for extremely anisotropic 3D superconductors.

Recent μSR (Ref. [8]) and neutron-diffraction [9] measurements have
confirmed the existence of such a lattice, but only for low fields (<
0.1 T) and temperatures below the irreversibility line. In these
measurements the flux lattice was observed to undergo a melting
transition [10] at the irreversibility line independently determined
from magnetic measurements on the same samples. [9] Below the
irreversibility line, on increasing field, another transition was
observed to a state with a much reduced correlation in flux pancake
alignment along the c direction, identified as the field B2D at which
the 3D flux-line lattice decomposes into a 2D layered structure, [11]
with little correlation in position of flux pancakes between adjacent
superconducting bilayers.

Such a transition is predicted at a field
$B_{\rm 2D}\!\sim\!\phi_{0}/(\gamma d)^{2}$, [9, 10] where d is the
spacing between superconducting bilayers, when the interplane coupling
of pancake vortices become smaller than their coupling within the
planes. Measurements of magnetic hysteresis on the same samples used for
neutron diffraction and μSR studies show that this transition occurs at
the same field as the onset of the "arrowhead anomaly" in irreversible
magnetization measurements. [9] The sudden increase in magnetic
hysteresis above the 3D-2D phase transition was initially tentatively
identified with increased pinning of vortex pancakes above the 3D-2D
transition by extended planar dislocation networks. [12] This has
recently been confirmed by magnetic decoration and TEM measurements on
the same 2212-BSCCO crystal specimens by Grigorieva _et al._[13]

Any loss of alignment of flux pancakes across planes resulting from
either melting or 3D-2D decomposition transitions would be expected to
lead to a significant reduction in the critical current along the c
direction. [14] The influence of thermal fluctuations and of randomly
dispersed pinning centers on the alignment of pancake vortices and the
resulting _c_-axis critical current has been theoretically modeled by
Daemen _et al._[15] Thermal fluctuations of the positions of the pancake
vortices are predicted to result in a strongly temperature-dependent
field dependence of the _c_-axis critical current. For moderate
anisotropy parameter g, a first-order 3D-2D decoupling transition has
been predicted, which becomes second order for large anisotropies.

The above authors also considered the perturbation in position of a 3D
lattice of flux pancakes by randomly distributed pinning centers on each
plane. This results in a field-dependent reduction in _c_-axis critical
current
$j_{c} = j_{0}\exp\left( { - B\mathord{\left/ {\vphantom {B\beta B}}\right. \kern-\nulldelimiterspace B}B^{\star}} \right)$,
where B^(⋆) depends on the density of pinning centers, which is shown to
be consistent with our measurements at low fields. The effect of pinning
on the 3D-2D decomposition transition was not considered, though it was
anticipated to occur at high fields, whereas in practice the transition
occurs at relatively modest fields  30-100 mT.9,10 In this paper, we
present measurements of the _c_-axis _V-I_ characteristics in the normal
and superconducting states for a number of 2212-BSCCO single crystals
subjected to different processing conditions to vary the oxygen
stoichiometry in the insulating planes and hence the anisotropy factor
g.16 Measurements have been made over a range of fields and temperatures
to compare with the theoretical models above.

Below T_(c), we have concentrated on measurements of the critical
current over the range of fields that melting and 3D-2D transitions have
been inferred from neutron-diffraction9 and _m_SR (Ref. 8) measurements.
The critical current in all crystals investigated decreases
monotonically with increasing field at all temperatures, with no
evidence for any discontinuity in value or any significant change in
field dependence either on crossing the irreversibility line at the
melting transition or on crossing the decomposition transition on
increasing field. This implies a persistent correlation in position of
flux pancakes across adjacent pairs of CuO2 planes extending well above
these transitions. The effective correlation length along the c axis
must therefore be somewhat greater than the spacing between the
superconducting double CuO2 layers (_d_ > 1 nm). An upper limit for the
correlation length can be deduced from _m_SR measurements,  _l_o_  200
nm. This is significantly smaller than the upper limit deduced from
neutron-diffraction measurements ( 10 _m_m).17

We also present measurements of the _c_-axis _V-I_ characteristics above
T_(c), similar to measurements reported elsewhere (see Kleiner _et al._5
for extensive references to earlier measurements). In contrast to the
resistivity in the _ab_ plane, the resistance in the c direction, at
small currents, _increases_ on approaching T_(c) from above. However,
the _V-I_ characteristics, at least for oxygen-doped crystals, are very
nonlinear in this region and the increased resistivity may be in part be
associated with thermal fluctuations of the superconducting order
parameter, which decreases the density of states of normal electrons
above T_(c) and also their lifetimes.18-21

Surprisingly few authors have commented on the nonlinear _V-I_
characteristics above T_(c) and most only quote resistances measured at
low currents. At larger currents, the resistance at all temperatures
appears to approach a limiting "normal-state" value. This limiting
resistance decreases slowly with decreasing temperature, even well below
T_(c), as evident from the _V-I_ characteristics well above T_(c). When
modeling measurements below T_(c), we assume it is this high-current
resistance value that provides the damping of the series of resistively
shunted junctions (RSJ). This then results in realistic estimates for
the effective interlayer capacitance, deduced from the current at which
_V-I_ characteristics start to become hysteretic.

## II Experiment

Measurements of the electrical characteristics along the c direction
have been made on a number of small single crystals using a method that
is essentially identical to the described by Kleiner _et al._3 The
crystals were grown using a large temperature gradient growth
technique.22 Samples were cleaved and shaped from larger crystals of
similar quality to those used for neutron-diffraction,9 _m_SR,8 and
magnetic measurements.13 The influence of oxygen stoichiometry, and
hence anisotropy factor g, on our measurements was investigated using
as-grown (AG) crystals, vacuum annealed (VA) crystals, and oxygen
annealed (OA) crystals, as described in Table I.

Typical sample sizes ranged from 30x30x5 _m_m to 100x150x10 _m_m. The
small size of the crystals was determined by the requirement that their
lateral dimensions should be less than l_(c) (>100 _m_m for our samples,
see Table I). We can then assume short-junction behavior between layers,
with no vortices parallel to the layers induced by self-currents.

Because of the extreme difficulty of attaching leads to such small
crystals, only two-point measurements of the _V-I_ characteristics were
possible. To minimize the contact resistance, a gold layer was sputtered
on to the opposite faces of the crystals and also on to the 0.3-mm-diam
flattened cone faces of the spring-loaded metal rods used to make
electrical contact. From the residual slope of the resistance in the
superconducting state at low temperatures, any normal component of the
contact resistance was estimated to be always less than  5

Measurements were made in a continuous-flow cryostat with the sample
directly cooled by flowing helium. An external field of up to 0.25 T
could be applied at any angle between the c axis and _ab_ plane.

## III Measurements

Typical _V-I_ characteristics for an oxygen-annealed crystal (_B_12) as
a function of temperature in zero and 0.1 T field are shown in Figs.
1(a) and 1(b). These curves illustrate the main features of the
characteristics on cooling. In particular, we note (i) the nonlinearity
at small currents, which becomes significant well above T_(c) ( 87 K for
this sample); (ii) the development of a superconducting transition below
T_(c), with _V-I_ characteristics becoming increasingly hysteretic on
decreasing temperature; and (iii) the influence of magnetic field on
such features. Superimposed _V-I_ measurements at a few representative
temperatures are replotted in Fig. 2, which allow a more direct
comparison of the magnitudes of the current-induced superconducting
transitions. At large currents, it will be noted that the resistance
approaches a temperature-independent "normal-state" value.

The _c_-axis resistivity measured at small currents is illustrated in
Figs. 3(a)-3(c) for vacuum-annealed (VA), as-grown (AG), and
oxygen-annealed (OA) crystals. These measurements show the strong
dependence of normal-state resistivity on sample oxygenation, with a
value that increases dramatically close to T_(c). This is most
pronounced for the vacuum-annealed crystal, which is the most
anisotropic.

The increased _c_-axis resistivity of BSSCO on cooling has been
associated with thermally activated hopping between conducting CuO2
planes [23] and with an intrinsic dependence associated with spin-charge
separation by Anderson. [24] Recently, Balestrino _et al._[20] have
fitted the enhanced _c_-axis resistivity in thin 2212-BSCCO films to a
fluctuation model introduced by Ioffe _et al._, [19] who derive a
quasi-logarithmic _c_-axis resistance varying as R = R_(n)/F(T), where

$$F(T) = \int_{0}^{\infty}\frac{dx}{\mathit{\kappa}\cosh^{2}(x/4)}\,{\rm Im}[\,V\,{\rm\kappa}\,{\rm+}\,(\lambda\,{\rm+}\,i{\rm\kappa})^{2}\,]$$

with $\kappa = \kappa_{0}{\rm ln}[\,T_{c}/(T - T_{c})\,]$, where
κ₀ = 18.7T_(c)/ε_(F) in the clean limit and  wide a range of
temperatures to be described by any such model, which requires that
(T − T_(c))/T_(c) is small. Further detailed investigation of the
nonlinear _V-I_ characteristics above T_(c) are required, and especially
of the influence of doping, as this may shed light on the nature of
electron transport in the c direction.

On cooling below T_(c), the _V-I_ characteristics are initially
reversible with a thermally broadened superconducting transition. We
define a value for I_(c) in this regime as the current at zero voltage
extrapolated from the region of steepest slope of the _V-I_
characteristics, as illustrated by the inset in Fig. 1(b). At lower
temperatures, the transition occurs at a clearly defined critical
current I_(c). As the sample is further cooled, the _V-I_
characteristics become increasingly hysteretic. This is consistent with
the behavior expected from the RSJ model for the individual junctions,
when the McCumber parameter,25β_(c), exceeds unity. It will be noted
that the measured _V-I_ characteristics are slightly reentrant above
I_(c). This arises because the current was provided by a voltage source
with a series resistance. Above the superconducting transition, a
significant amount of power is dissipated inside the crystal
(typically >10 mW in the fully developed normal state), which results in
a decrease in critical current and the observed reentrant
characteristics. We have no way of correcting for any temperature change
that arises from such heating, though the crystal is directly cooled by
flowing helium gas.

An approximate estimate of the temperature rise at the center of the
crystal from self-heating can be made by assuming uniform power
dissipation and heat flow along the c axis only. Unfortunately, there
are no published measurements of the _c_-axis thermal conductivity down
to low temperatures. However, measurements at around 50 K and above by
Crommie _et al._23 would suggest a low-temperature conductivity varying
approximately as 0.01 T ${\bf W}{\bf K}^{- 1}\,{\rm m}^{- 1}$, though
measurements of thermal conductivity in the _ab_ plane are typically ten
times higher.26 For a 100-μm square, 5-μm-thick crystal the Crommie _et
al._ value would result in a temperature rise of $\sim 12.5/T\,{\bf K}$,
per mW power dissipated in the bulk of the crystal, showing that heating
is likely to be a very serious problem in the normal state for currents
exceeding I_(c). Fortunately heating is not likely to be such a problem
at the initial transition from the superconducting state, which is used
to define I_(c). As the temperature rise is proportional to the square
of the thickness of the crystal, it is important to use as thin crystals
as possible for such measurements. In practice we were limited by the
difficulties in handling and making contacts to crystals smaller than
those used.

At high temperatures, the characteristics are consistent with almost all
the bilayer junctions (typically  ∼ 3000) undergoing a simultaneous
transition to the normal state over a relatively narrow range of
currents. However, at low temperatures, small differences in critical
currents across individual layers lead to early transitions. On
increasing current, discrete superconducting transitions are then
observed from different regions of the thickness, as is evident in the
4.5- and 33-K measurements in Fig. 2. For such measurements we identify
the intrinsic bulk I_(c) as the current at which the major change in
voltage is observed, which typically involves  > 70

Figure 3: The _c_-axis small current resistivity for (a) sample B10
(vacuum annealed), (b) sample B15 (as grown), and (c) sample B12 (oxygen
annealed).

Figure 2: Superimposed _c_-axis _V-I_ curves for sample B12 (OA) at 4.5,
33, 65, 82.5, and 87 K.

stoichiometry, modification of surface properties close to the contact
regions and other crystal defects.

The critical current density of our crystals increases systematically
with oxygenation, as shown in Table I. The temperature dependence of the
normalized critical current is plotted for a number of representative
crystals in Fig. 4. The critical currents for the as-grown and
oxygen-annealed samples approach a limiting low-temperature value
consistent with SIS rather than SNS behavior. For these samples, the
critical currents tend to lie slightly above the Ambegaokar-Baratoff
predictions [27] for the temperature dependence of an ideal SIS
junction, I_(c)(T)R_(n) = (πΔ/2e)tanh (Δ/2kT), indicated by the solid
line in Fig. 4, and there is a small upturn of the critical current at
the lowest temperatures, which might be an indication of a small
self-heating effect. Self-heating is almost certainly significant for
the vacuum-annealed sample, where the effective sample temperature is
almost certainly above that of the surrounding helium, resulting in an
experimental curve with a resistance continuing to rise down to the
lowest temperatures.

The values of the effective energy gap Δ^(•) (values listed in Table I)
derived from the measured voltage change at I_(c) for all our crystals
were typically only a few percent of the value expected from the BCS
relation 2Δ_(BCS) = 3.75kT_(c). In contrast, Kleiner _et al._,[3]
observed voltage steps  15 mV, close to the expected BCS value. These
measurements were deduced from early transitions as the critical current
was exceeded in individual layers. However, such values were only
observed in their argon-grown single crystals: in oxygen-annealed and
Pb-doped crystals, much smaller values of Δ^(•) were deduced from the
major transition at I_(c), though they still tended to be slightly
larger than derived for our crystals. Similar low values for Δ^(•) have
also been deduced in measurements by Kadowaki _et al._[28] It is well
known that defects in artificial SIS junctions can reduce measured
I_(c)R products well below theoretical values. Furthermore, in practice
the bulk critical current will always be limited by the weakest
junctions with the smallest critical currents, which will be
particularly important if heating in such junctions result in an
avalanche process.

The _V_-_I_ characteristics are predicted to become hysteretic, when the
McCumber parameter β_(c) = 2πCI_(c)R²/Φ₀ = 1, where R is the interplanar
resistance (total resistance/number of junctions in thickness of
crystal) and C is the interplanar capacitance. Assuming that R is
determined by the resistance measured at larger rather than small
currents, we can use the onset of hysteresis to estimate the capacitance
and hence effective dielectric constant between superconducting layers.
From zero-field measurements, we obtain capacitances in the range
0.035 − 0.27 Fm⁻², corresponding to an effective dielectric constant
varying from 30 in the vacuum-annealed sample to 3 in the
oxygen-annealed sample. These values should be compared with the value
of dielectric constant  25 suggested by recent measurements of the
low-frequency transverse plasma resonance [29] in BSCCO single crystals.
[30] Anything other than order-of-magnitude agreement would be
fortuitous, as we cannot assume ideal SIS behavior for the individual
junctions. We have ignored thermal broadening of the transition and the
influence of superconducting fluctuations, which would further
complicate any detailed interpretation of our measurements.

The exact form of the hysteretic characteristics of a series array of
RSJ junctions will depend on the effective electromagnetic coupling
between layers and the outside world. Although no attempt has yet been
made to describe the exact form of the characteristics on decreasing
current, it is important to note the increase in voltage observed in the
measurements at low temperatures (see Fig. 2). Such behavior is not
expected for a simple RSJ junction model, for which the voltage would be
expected to decrease monotonically before switching back to the
superconducting state. We observe similar features to those shown in
Fig. 2 for all our samples at low temperatures but the features is most
pronounced in the oxygen-annealed samples. An explanation in terms of
self-heating would seem to be ruled out, as the effective resistance for
the 4.5 K measurements rises well above the "normal-state" value.
Similar characteristics have recently been observed in measurements on
small mesas lithographically patterned on the surface of single crystals
of BSCCO, [31] where the authors interpret their measurements in terms
of nonequilibrium self-injection of quasiparticles, which reduces
superconductivity, as inferred from measurements on artificial arrays of
conventional superconductor junctions. [32, 33] It seems likely that
similar effects are also present in bulk HTC crystals.

## IV Influence of magnetic field

Comparison of Figs. 1(a) and 1(b) show that, on applying a field in the
c direction, the critical current is depressed and the transition is
slightly broadened, with the onset of hysteretic behavior raised to a
somewhat larger value of I_(c). This is a further demonstration that the
actual dynamics is more complicated than predicted by a simple McCumber
model, since β_(c) should only depend on I_(c).

Figure 5 shows the dependence on field of the normalized critical
current for an oxygen-annealed sample at a

Figure 4: The temperature dependence of the normalized _c_-axis critical
current for samples B10 (VA), B15 (AG), and B12 (OA). The solid line is
the Ambegaokar-Baratoff relation for SIS junctions.

number of temperatures. The field dependence of the critical current is
only weakly dependent on temperature for all our crystals, irrespective
of oxygenation. In particular, there is no evidence for any significant
change in I_(c) or its field dependence at either the 3D-2D
decomposition transition field or the irreversibility line marking the
melting transition. In Fig. 5 the approximately temperature-independent
3D-2D transition field $B_{\rm 2D}$ is indicated by the dashed vertical
line and measurements below and above the magnetically determined
irreversibility line are indicated by open and solid symbols,
respectively.

These results immediately imply a relatively strong correlation in the
positions of flux pancakes across the planes, persisting to fields and
temperatures well above the 3D-2D decomposition and irreversibility line
transitions. Although the reported measurements were made as a function
of increasing magnetic field, our measurements were ideally reversible
to within our experimental accuracy. The reversibility is a consequence
of the small size and relatively weak pinning of our crystals.

Figure 6 shows the field dependence of the critical current at 25 K
normalized to its zero-field value for three crystals; vacuum annealed,
as grown, and oxygen annealed. The field dependence is strongly
dependent on the state of sample oxygenation.

All three curves can be plotted on a single universal curve, illustrated
in Fig. 7, using as the scaling field $B_{\rm 2D}$, the field at which
the 3D-2D decomposition transition is known to occur as deduced from μSR
and neutron-diffraction measurements on similarly processed crystals.
These values were confirmed by direct magnetic measurements on the
parent crystals from which the resistivity samples were cleaved,
identifying the 3D-2D transition as the onset field of the magnetic
arrowhead anomaly. The universal curve can be fitted over a wide field
range by an empirical relationship of the form
$\alpha\exp(-B/B_{\rm 1}^{\bullet})$$+\beta\exp(-B/B_{\rm 2}^{\bullet})$,
where α = 0.71, β = 0.34, $B_{\rm 1}^{\bullet}$ = 1.67$B_{\rm 2D}$, and
$B_{\rm 2}^{\bullet}$ = 20.5$B_{\rm 2D}$.

In a small number of cases, we also measured the critical current as a
function of field direction relative to the c axis. Except for field
directions very close to the ab planes, the critical current was
determined by the component of field along the c axis, as previously
demonstrated by Kleiner _et al._[3].

The suppression of the critical current density by misalignment of flux
lines across opposing electrodes of a Josephson junction was first
considered by Miller _et al._[14] These ideas were extended by Daemen
_et al._ (DBMC),[15] who considered two situations: thermally activated
decomposition of a 3D lattice of pancake vortices and pinning-induced
disorder of the 3D lattice.

All the above models assume that the Josephson current is determined by
the difference in phase across adjacent pairs of superconducting CuO₂
planes. If pancake vortices are well ordered across the planes, the
spatial variation of the phase on one plane exactly matches the spatial
variations of phase on the neighboring planes.

Figure 5: The field dependence of the normalized c-axis critical current
for sample B12 (OA) at T = 4.2 K (solid triangles), 25 K (solid
diamonds), 50 K (squares), and 60 K (circles). The magnetically
determined 3D-2D transition field for this sample is indicated by the
dashed vertical line. Solid and open symbols represent measurements
taken below and above the magnetically determined irreversibility line,
respectively.

Figure 6: The field dependence of the normalized c-axis critical current
at 25 K for crystals B10 (VA), B15 (AG), and B12 (OA).

Therefore, to first order the presence of pancake vortices should not
affect the critical current along the c axis. However, if the positions
of individual pancakes are perturbed by thermal fluctuations or are
shifted by interactions with nearby defects, phase coherence across
adjacent planes is lost resulting in a reduction of the _c_-axis
critical current.

DBMC showed that thermal fluctuations should lead to a 3D-2D phase
transition of pancake vortices at a field B2D that was predicted to vary
strongly with temperature. Furthermore, fluctuations were predicted to
give rise to a reduction in _c_-axis critical current with a field
dependence varying strongly with temperature. In contrast, _m_SR and
neutron-differaction measurements show that the decomposition field is
relatively insensitive to temperature, and the depression of critical
current with field is remarkably insensitive to temperature (Fig. 4).
DBMC also predict the existence of a totally uncorrelated pancake vortex
structure above the 3D-2D decomposition field, with a vanishingly small
_c_-axis critical current, whereas we always observe a finite critical
current extending to fields well above those at which the transition is
expected from _m_SR and neutron-diffraction measurements. Thermal
fluctuations therefore appear not to be important at the temperatures
and fields investigated in these measurements.

Daemen _et al._15 also considered the influence of random pinning on a
3D pancake lattice as flux lines cross each CuO2 bilayer. The resulting
misalignment of pancakes across planes gives rise to an approximately
exponential decrease in _c_-axis critical current with increasing field,
j_(c) = j₀exp (−B/B^(*)), where B^(*) = 8Φ₀/πn²u₀⁶ and B^(*) = 2nΦ₀/π
for small and large pinning densities, respectively; n is the aerial
density of pinning centers within individual CuO2 bilayers, and
u₀ ∼ λ_(J) = γs is the Josephson length, where s is the periodicity of
the superconducting planes.

Such a model can be compared with our measurements at low temperatures
and fields, where the pancakes are ordered in a 3D lattice. The spacing
of the flux lines below the 3D-2D decomposition is >1 _m_m, which is
significantly larger than the expected spacing of defects in the CuO2
planes (oxygen vacancies and extended dislocation networks).34 It is
therefore reasonable to assume that we are in a strong pinning density
regime, with each pancake pinned to a nearby pinning center within the
CuO2 planes. We indeed observe a nearly linear reduction in critical
current with field at low fields (see Fig. 6), which would imply a
density of pinning centers, n ∼ πB^(*)/2Φ₀, where
$B^{\ast} \sim 3B_{\rm 2D}$. This gives characteristic length scales for
the distance between pinning centers in the CuO2 planes of  200,  140,
and  80 nm for the vacuum-annealed, as-grown, and oxygen-annealed
crystals, respectively.

The above model implies an increase in the number of pinning centers on
increased oxygenation, whereas the number of individual oxygen vacancy
pinning sites will obviously decrease. However, it is known that the
density of planar dislocation networks increases on oxygenation.12 Such
defects have been confirmed as strong pinning sites in 2212-BSCCO.13 The
characteristic pinning length associated with such networks is  200 nm,
which is similar to the pinning length scales derived above.

From Fig. 7, we note that the field dependence cannot be described by a
single exponential curve over the whole field range. The deviation from
the predicted field dependence could reflect a change in coherence of
pancakes across planes at the 3D-2D decomposition transition.

A detailed description of the field dependence of the _c_-axis critical
current will almost certainly have to take into account the influence of
random pinning centers in addition to the intrinsic coupling between
layers governed by the anisotropy factor g. A self-consistent model must
also be able to account for the melting and 3D-2D transitions in terms
of both anisotropy factor and random pinning.

Whatever the origin of the pinning, the above measurements demonstrate a
very strong correlation between the field dependence of the _c_-axis
critical current with associated scaling field B^(*) and $B_{\rm 2D}$,
the field at which the 3D-2D decomposition takes place. This correlation
may simply be accidental, but on face value it suggests that the density
of pinning centers in the CuO2 planes may be just as important as the
anisotropy factor g in determining the field at which the 3D-2D
transition takes place.

## V Summary

Measurements of the electrical characteristics of BSCCO single crystals
along the c axis are shown to be consistent with a model for such
crystals as a series array of RSJ junctions. Although such a model
accounts qualitatively for the observed _V-I_ characteristics and
provides a sensible estimate for the effective interplane capacitance,
the values of critical current observed are significantly smaller than
those expected from the Ambegaokar-Baratoff relation.

The _V-I_ characteristics above T_(c) are highly nonlinear, at least for
the oxygen-annealed crystal, possibly consistent with a fluctuation
enhanced resistance at low currents (or voltages) associated with the
excitation of virtual Cooper pairs. However, the fractional change in
resistance of the vacuum-annealed crystal between room temperature and
T_(c) is probably too large to be described by superconducting
fluctuations alone.

No strong evidence is found for any marked change in value or field
dependence of the critical current at either the 3D-2D lattice
decomposition field or the melting transition at the irreversibility
line. This implies that flux pancakes remain relatively well correlated
in position across planes well above these transitions, even though the
spatial correlation disappears on the length scales probed by
neutron-diffraction and _m_SR measurements.

The field dependence of the critical current at small fields is
consistent with the existence of a 3D flux lattice of vortex pancakes
that is perturbed by local pinning on crossing each CuO2 plane. A simple
model for such pinning leads to the observed quasiseponential decrease
in critical current, but the observed dependence is slower at larger
fields, implying a stronger than predicted persistent correlation of
pancakes between planes. Hence the fields B2D and _B_irr at which the
3D-2D and melting transitions are inferred from neutron-diffraction,
μSR, and magnetization measurements involve phase transitions occurring
over length scales greater than the spacing between the CuO₂ double
layers.

The field dependence of the normalized critical current can be described
by a universal function using as the scaling field, the field
$B_{\rm 2D}$ at which the 3D-2D transition is inferred from
neutron-diffraction, μSR, and magnetic measurements. This field is
strongly influenced by the state of oxygenation of the sample, and hence
by the anisotropy factor γ. However, the situation is further
complicated because increased oxygenation also increases the number of
planar dislocation networks, which provide effective pinning centers,
thus complicating any theoretical interpretation of experimental data.
Further modeling studies are required to clarify the influence of
in-plane defects on the 3D-2D decomposition and melting transitions and
to consider the influence of such transitions on the c-axis critical
current.

###### Acknowledgements.

We gratefully acknowledge helpful discussions with Ted Forgan, Bob
Cubbit, Bea Avenhaus, Yusheng He, and L. N. Bulaevsky. This research is
supported by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, UK.
One of us (S.L.) is grateful for the award of an Overseas Research
Studentship.

## References

* [*]School of Physics and Space Research, University of Birmingham,
Birmingham, UK. * [+]School of Metallurgy and Materials, University of
Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. * [3]D. E. Farrel, S. Bonham, J. Foster, Y.
C. Chang, P. Z. Jiang, K. G. Vandervoort, D. L. Lam, and V. G. Kogan,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 782 (1989). * [4]K. Okuda, S. Kawamata, S.
Noguchi, N. Itoh, and K. Kadowaki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **60**, 3226
(1991). * [5]R. Kleiner and P. Muller, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1327
(1994). * [6]W. E. Lawrence and S. Doniach, in _Proceedings of the 12th
International Conference on Low Temperature Physics_, edited by E. Kanda
(Academic Press of Japan, Kyoto, 1971), p. 361. * [7]R. Kleiner, F.
Steinmeyer, G. Kunkel, and B. Muller, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2394
(1992). * [8]L. N. Bulaevskii, S. V. Meshkov, and D. Feinberg, Phys.
Rev. B **43**, 3728 (1991). * [9]J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7837
(1991). * [10]S. L. Lee, P. Zimmermann, H. Keller, M. Warden, I. M.
Savic, R. Schauwecker, D. Zech, R. Cubitt, E. M. Forgan, P. H. Kes, T.
W. Li, A. A. Menovsky, and Z. Tarnawsky, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 3862
(1993). * [11]R. Cubitt, E. M. Forgan, G. Yang, S. L. Lee, D. McK. Paul,
H. A. Mook, M. Yethiraj, P. H. Kes, T. W. Li, A. A. Menovsky, Z.
Tarnawski, and K. Mortensen, Nature **365**, 407 (1993). * [12]A.
Houghton, R. A. Pelcovits, and S. Subdo, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6763
(1989). * [13]V. M. Vinokur, P. H. Kes, and A. E. Koshalev, Phys. Rev. B
**43**, 29 (1990). * [14]G. Yang, P. Shang, S. D. Sutton, C. E. Gough,
and J. S. Abell, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 4054 (1993). * [15]I. V.
Grigorieva _et al._, _Proceedings of the M2S-HTC IV Conference_ (Physics
C (to be published)). * [16]S. L. Miller, K. R. Biagi, J. R. Clem, and
D. K. Finnemore, Phys. Rev. B **31**, 2684 (1985). * [17]L. L. Daemen,
L. N. Bulaevskii, M. P. Maley, and J. Y. Coulter, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**70**, 1167 (1993); Phys. Rev. B **47**, 11 291 (1993). * [18]B. O.
Wells, Z. X. Shen, D. S. Dessau, W. E. Spicer, C. G. Olson, D. B. Mitzi,
A. Kapitulnik, R. S. List, and A. Arko, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 3056
(1990). * [19]E. M. Forgan (private communication). * [20]K. E. Gray and
D. H. Kim, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1693 (1993). * [21]L. B. Ioffe, A.
I. Larkin, A. A. Varlamov, and L. Yu, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8936
(1993). * [22]G. Balestrino, M. Marinelli, E. Milani, A. A. Varlamov,
and L. Yu, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 6037 (1993). * [23]V. V. Dorin, R. A.
Klemm, A. A. Varlamov, A. I. Buzdin, and C. V. Livanov, Phys. Rev. B
**48**, 12 951 (1993). * [24]G. Yang, C. E. Gough, and J. S. Abell, IEEE
Trans. Appl. Supercond. **3**, 1663 (1993). * [25]M. F. Crommie and A.
Zettl, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 408 (1991). * [26]P. W. Anderson, Science
**235**, 1196 (1987); Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 2306 (1990); **66**, 3226
(1991). * [27]D. E. McCumber, J. Appl. Phys. **39**, 297 (1967). *
[28]N. V. Zavavritsky, A. V. Samoilov, and A. A. Yurgens, Physica C
**169**, 174 (1990). * [29]V. Ambegaokar and A. Baratoff, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **10**, 486 (1963). * [30]K. Kadowaki, T. Mochiku, H. Takeya, K.
Hirata, and Y. Saito, _Proceedings of the M2S-HTC IV Conference_ (Ref.
13). * [31]S. Tajima, G. D. Gu, S. Miyamato, A. Odagawa, and N.
Koshizuka, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 16 164 (1993). * [32]M. Tachiki (private
communication). * [33]A. Yurgens, D. Winkler, Y. M. Zhang, N.
Zavaritsky, and T. Claeson, _Proceedings of the M2S-HTC IV Conference_
(Ref. 13). * [34]I. Iguchi, Phys. Rev. B **16**, 1954 (1977). * [35]D.
Winkler and T. Claeson, Phys. Scr. **32**, 317 (1985). * [36]P. Shang,
G. Yang, I. P. Jones, C. E. Gough, and J. S. Abell, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**63**, 827 (1993).
