Superconductivity at 5 K in quasi-one-dimensional Cr-based KCr₃As₃
single crystals

Qing-Ge Mu,^(1, 2) Bin-Bin Ruan,^(1, 2) Bo-Jin Pan,^(1, 2) Tong
Liu,^(1, 2) Jia Yu,^(1, 2) Kang Zhao,^(1, 2) Gen-Fu Chen,^(1, 2, 3) and
Zhi-An Ren^(1, 2, 3,)

¹Institute of Physics and Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed
Matter Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China

²School of Physical Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100049, China

³Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing 100190,
China

###### Abstract

Recently a new family of Cr-based A₂Cr₃As₃ (A = K, Rb, Cs)
superconductors was reported, which own a rare quasi-one-dimensional
(Q1D) crystal structure with infinite (Cr₃As₃)²⁻ chains and exhibit
intriguing superconducting characteristics possibly derived from
spin-triplet electron pairing. The crystal structure of A₂Cr₃As₃ is
actually a slight variation of the hexagonal TlFe₃Te₃ prototype,
although they have different lattice symmetry. Here we report
superconductivity in a 133-type KCr₃As₃ compound that belongs to the
latter structure. The single crystals of KCr₃As₃ were prepared by the
deintercalation of K ions from K₂Cr₃As₃ crystals which were grown from a
high-temperature solution growth method, and it owns a centrosymmetric
lattice in contrast to the noncentrosymmetric K₂Cr₃As₃. After annealing
at a moderate temperature, the KCr₃As₃ crystals show superconductivity
at 5 K revealed by electrical resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, and
heat capacity measurements. The discovery of this KCr₃As₃ superconductor
provides a different structural instance to study the exotic
superconductivity in these Q1D Cr-based superconductors.

pacs: 2469-9950/2017/96(14)/140504 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **96**, 140504(R) (2017)

The recently discovered Cr-based superconductors A₂Cr₃As₃ (A = K, Rb,
Cs) have attracted much interest besides the enthusiasm on Fe-based
high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductors [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]. This is partly
because there have been very few Cr-containing compounds exhibiting
superconductivity for a century. Except for several binary Cr alloys [7,
8, 9, 10, 11], the only superconductors are the lately reported ternary
boride Cr₂Re₃B which has a noncentrosymmetric β-Mn-type crystal
structure and a $T_{\rm c}$ of 4.8 K [12], and the binary CrAs which
exhibits superconductivity at 2 K by suppressing the antiferromagnetic
order via the application of external high pressures above 8 kbar [13,
14]. Furthermore, these 233-type A₂Cr₃As₃ compounds crystallize in a
very particular quasi-one-dimensional (Q1D) hexagonal crystal lattice
with a space group of P̂Θ̂m2 (No. 187), which can be regarded as infinite
Q1D (Cr₃As₃)²⁻ linear chains separated by alkali-metal cations that act
as a charge reservoir [1, 2, 3, 15]. When replacing the K⁺ ions with
larger Rb⁺ or Cs⁺ ions, the superconducting $T_{\rm c}$ decreases
dramatically from 6.1 K to 4.8 and 2.2 K, respectively [1, 2, 3, 15,
16], and the $T_{\rm c}$ also monotonically decreases under external
pressures in K₂Cr₃As₃[16, 17]. Theoretical calculations on K₂Cr₃As₃
predict a complex multiband electronic structure with a
three-dimensional Fermi-surface pocket in addition to two Q1D
Fermi-surface sheets mainly contributed by the Cr-3d electrons [18, 19,
20, 21, 22]. Experimental results show strong electron correlations and
magnetic fluctuations but very diverse pictures of ground states, and
both spin-triplet and spin-singlet electron pairing are proposed to
explain the exotic superconductivity [23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30].
As a rare case of Q1D superconductors, A₂Cr₃As₃ is significantly
different from previously reported Q1D superconductors such as
Li_(0.9)Mo₆O₇[31, 32, 33], Tl₂Mo₆Se₆[33], and organic superconductors
(TMTSF)₂ (TMTSF = tetramethyltetraselenafulvalene, X = PF₆ or ClO₄) [34,
35, 36, 37].

By deintercalating half of the K ions from the K₂Cr₃As₃ lattice, a new
type of Q1D compound KCr₃As₃ can be obtained [38]. This 133-type KCr₃As₃
has a hexagonal TlFe₃Te₃-type crystal structure with the space group
P₆/m (No. 176) [38]. Unlike its 233-type cousins which lack inversion
symmetry, the KCr₃As₃ has a centrosymmetric crystal lattice. Although
the characteristic Cr₃As₃ linear chain structures are similar between
the two compounds except for a small-angle rotation along the c axis,
removing a K⁺ ion per formula from K₂Cr₃As₃ increases the chemical
valence state of Cr and turns the Q1D chains into (Cr₃As₃)⁻ type in the
KCr₃As₃ lattice. Previous experimental studies on polycrystalline
KCr₃As₃ showed cluster spin-glass ground state without superconductivity
at low temperature [38], and the density functional theory
first-principles calculations exhibited a magnetic Fermi surface
involving only three one-dimensional sheets with much reduced
dimensionality and the emergence of the interlayer antiferromagnetic
order [39].

In this Rapid Communication, we report the discovery of
superconductivity in the single crystals of KCr₃As₃ with a T_(c) of 5 K.

The 133-type KCr₃As₃ single crystals were prepared by the
deintercalation of K⁺ ions from K₂Cr₃As₃ precursors. At first,
high-quality single crystals of K₂Cr₃As₃ were grown out of a KAs and
CrAs mixture using a high-temperature solution growth method as
previously reported [1]. Then the as-grown rodlike K₂Cr₃As₃ single
crystals were immersed in pure dehydrated ethanol and kept for 1 wk for
the deintercalation of K⁺ ions at room temperature. The obtained samples
were washed by ethanol thoroughly and labeled as sample A. To further
improve the sample quality, the crystals of sample A were immersed in
ethanol in a Teflon liner and loaded into an autoclave. The autoclave
was tightly sealed, and sintered at 353 K for 100 h. After cooled down
to room temperature, the obtained samples were washed with ethanol again
and annealed in an evacuated quartz tube at 373 K for 12 h. These final
postannealed KCr₃As₃ crystals were labeled as sample B. All the
experimental procedures were carried out in a glovebox filled with
high-purity Ar gas to avoid introducing impurities. The obtained KCr₃As₃
crystals are stable in air at room temperature, but it decomposes above
a moderate temperature at 473 K. Due to this reason, our direct
synthesis of KCl₃As₃ polycrystals from solid-state reaction or
single-crystal growth from high-temperature solutions all failed. For
comparison, we also reproduced polycrystalline KCr₃As₃ samples by the
deintercalation process from K₂Cr₃As₃ powders which were synthesized by
a solid-state reaction method as reported [38].

The crystal structure of all samples was characterized by powder x-ray
diffraction (PXRD) at room temperature with a PAN-analytical x-ray
diffractometer using Cu Kα radiation. The electrical resistivity and
heat capacity were measured in a Quantum Design physical property
measurement system by the standard four-probe method and relaxation
method, respectively. The dc magnetization was measured in a Quantum
Design magnetic property measurement system under zero-field-cooling
(ZFC) and field-cooling modes.

The hexagonal crystal structure of the 133-type KCr₃As₃ is illustrated
in Fig. 1(a). Due to the obvious lattice shrinkage along the a axis
during the ion deintercalation process (about 8.9

The temperature dependence of electrical resistivity was characterized
from 1.8 to 300 K for all samples and the data are shown in Fig. 2. In
our experiments, all batches of KCr₃As₃ single crystals show
superconducting transitions with resistivity dropping to zero at low
temperatures. But for the polycrystalline samples, no superconductivity
was observed as previously reported [38]. In Fig. 2(a), we compared the
resistivity behavior between the single crystals of K₂Cr₃As₃ and KCr₃As₃
(both sample A and sample B). The room-temperature resistivity values
are close for all these samples,

Figure 1: (a) The hexagonal crystal structure of KCr₃As₃. (b) The
scanning electron microscope image of KCr₃As₃ crystal. (c) The XRD
patterns for three KCr₃As₃ samples: (1) crystals of sample B, (2) ground
powder of sample B mixed with Si, and (3) polycrystalline sample. The
triangles represent Bragg peaks from Si, and the vertical bars represent
the position of calculated Bragg peaks.

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of electrical resistivity for
crystals of K₂Cr₃As₃ and KCr₃As₃ (both sample A and sample B). (b)
Enlarged view for the resistive superconducting transitions. (c) The
superconducting transitions under different magnetic fields for sample B
from 0 to 9 T. (d) Derived upper critical field and the Pauli
paramagnetic limit for sample B.

but the residual resistance ratio of KCr₃As₃ (∼3 for sample B) is much
smaller than that of K₂Cr₃As₃ (∼60), indicating the poor crystalline
quality of KCr₃As₃ crystals. This can be explained by the crystal
defects and lattice deformation in the KCr₃As₃ crystal induced by the
deintercalation process around room temperature, which also make the
sample A semiconducting-like behavior below 100 K, while after
annealing, the crystal quality becomes better and it shows a metallic
resistivity behavior for sample B. This can be further illustrated by
the superconducting transition as shown in Fig. 2(b). Sample A shows a
wide superconducting transition and an onset T_(c) ∼ 4.5 K, while sample
B shows a much narrower superconducting transition with a higher onset
T_(c) ∼ 5.0 K, and both values are lower than the T_(c) ∼ 6.0 K of
K₂Cr₃As₃.

To further characterize the superconducting properties, we performed
resistivity measurements on sample B under constant magnetic fields from
0 to 9 T with sweeping temperature to study the upper critical field
H_(c2) (with the field perpendicular to the c axis), and the normalized
data for ρ/ρ_(6.8) vs T are shown in Fig. 2(c). With magnetic field
increasing, the T_(c) shifts to lower temperatures systematically. We
define the μ₀H_(c2) as the field determined by 50

To demonstrate whether the observed superconductivity is the bulk nature
of the K-133 phase or from a possible minor remnant K-233 phase which
cannot be detected by XRD, the temperature dependence of magnetic
susceptibility and heat capacity were characterized and shown in Fig. 3.
Under a magnetic field of 10 Oe (perpendicular to the c axis), samples A
and B show a clear diamagnetic superconducting transition at 3.7 and 4.7
K, respectively. Whereas, the shielding volume fraction at 2 K from the
ZFC data is only about 9

The temperature dependence of heat capacity is plotted in Fig. 3(d) as a
relationship for C_(p)/T vs T². The normal-state data are linearly
fitted with both electron and phonon contributions by C_(p)/T = γ + βT²
with T above T_(c), from which we obtain the Sommerfeld coefficient γ as
81.31 mJ/(mol K²), and Debye temperature θ_(D) as 319 K calculated
according to θ_(D) = [(1/5)Nπ⁴/β]^(1/3). Comparing with K₂Cr₃As₃, the
close γ values indicate similar strong electron correlations, while the
higher θ_(D) is reasonably originated from the condensed crystal lattice
for KCr₃As₃[1,16]. The clear heat capacity jump in the C_(p) curve
happens at about 5 K. This indicates the occurrence of a superconducting
transition and further confirms the superconductivity of KCr₃As₃ single
crystals, which is consistent with the results of resistivity and
magnetization measurements. We note that the value of the heat capacity
jump ΔC_(p)/γT_(c) is about 0.47, which is much smaller than that of
K₂Cr₃As₃[1]; this is probably due to the low sample quality by remaining
crystal defects which are not fully removed during the annealing process
with the relatively low annealing temperature of only 373 K. To further
exclude the possibility of a remnant K-233 superconducting phase inside
the crystals, the powders of mashed K-133 single crystals were exposed
in air for several days and no clear change was observed for the
superconducting diamagnetism. This is distinctly different from the
K-233 powders which are extremely reactive and burn immediately when
exposed in air. The similar superconducting and electronic
characteristics in KCr₃As₃ and K₂Cr₃As₃ possibly indicate same electron
pairing mechanism that derives from a different lattice symmetry, and
the lack of superconductivity in polycrystalline KCr₃As₃ and the
annealing effects for single crystals reveal the extreme sensitivity of
superconductivity by disorders in the crystal lattice.

In summary, we synthesized the 133-type KCr₃As₃ single crystals, and
found superconductivity at a T_(c) of 5.0 K. This compound has a
centrosymmetric crystal structure differing from its noncentrosymmetric
counterpart K₂Cr₃As₃. Considering similar superconducting
characteristics but different crystal symmetry between the two
superconductors, this KCr₃As₃ provides another platform to acquire deep
insight into the unconventional superconducting mechanism in these Q1D
Cr-based superconductors.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility for (a)
sample A and (b) sample B. (c) Isothermal magnetization for sample B at
2 K. (d) Low-temperature heat capacity for sample B depicted as C_(p)/T
vs T² with a normal state linear fit.

The authors are grateful for the financial support from the National
Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 25311474339), the
National Basic Research Program of China (973 Program, Grant No.
2016YFA0300301), and the Youth Innovation Promotion Association of the
Chinese Academy of Sciences.

## References

* [1] J. K. Bao, J. Y. Liu, C. W. Ma, Z. H. Meng, Z. T. Tang, Y. L. Sun,
H. F. Zhai, H. Jiang, H. Bai, C. M. Feng, Z. A. Xu, and G. H. Cao, Phys.
Rev. X **5**, 011013 (2015). * [2] Z. T. Tang, J. K. Bao, Y. Liu, Y. L.
Sun, A. Ablimit, H. F. Zhai, H. Jiang, C. M. Feng, Z. A. Xu, and G. H.
Cao, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 020506 (2015). * [3] Z. T. Tang, J. K. Bao, Z.
Wang, H. Bai, H. Jiang, Y. Liu, H. F. Zhai, C. M. Feng, Z. A. Xu, and G.
H. Cao, Sci. China Mater. **58**, 16 (2015). * [4] Y. Kamihara, T.
Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296
(2008). * [5] Z. A. Ren, W. Lu, J. Yang, W. Yi, X. L. Shen, C. Zheng, G.
C. Che, X. L. Dong, L. L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z. X. Zhao, Chin. Phys.
Lett. **25**, 2215 (2008). * [6] Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano,
R. Kawamura, H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**128**, 10012 (2006). * [7] K. Andres, E. Bucher, J. P. Maita, and R.
C. Sherwood, Phys. Rev. **178**, 702 (1969). * [8] E. Bucher, F.
Heinziger, J. Muheim, and J. Muller, Rev. Mod. Phys. **36**, 146
(1964). * [9] B. Matthias, V. B. Compton, H. Suhl, and E. Corenzwit,
Phys. Rev. **115**, 1597 (1959). * [10] B. T. Matthias, T. H. Geballe,
V. B. Compton, E. Corenzwit, and G. W. Hull, Phys. Rev. **128**, 588
(1962). * [11] T. F. Smith, J. Low Temp. Phys. **6**, 171 (1972). * [12]
H. Niimura, K. Kawashima, K. Inoue, M. Yoshikawa, and J. Akimitsu, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 044702 (2014). * [13] H. Kotegawa, S. Nakahara,
H. Tou, and H. Sugawara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 093720 (2014). *
[14] W. Wu, J. Cheng, K. Matsubayashi, P. Kong, F. Lin, C. Jin, N. Wang,
Y. Uwatoko, and J. Luo, Nat. Commun. **5**, 5508 (2014). * [15] X. F.
Wang, C. Roncaioil, C. Eckberg, H. Kim, J. Yong, Y. Nakajima, S. R.
Saha, P. Y. Zavalij, and J. Paglione, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 020508
(2015). * [16] T. Kong, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**91**, 020507 (2015). * [17] Z. Wang, W. Yi, Q. Wu, V. A. Sidorov, J.
K. Bao, Z. T. Tang, J. Guo, Y. Z. Zhou, S. Zhang, H. Li, Y. G. Shi, X.
X. Wu, L. Zhang, K. Yang, A. G. Li, G. H. Cao, J. P. Hu, L. L. Sun, and
Z. X. Zhao, Sci. Rep. **6**, 37878 (2016). * [18] H. Jiang, G. H. Cao,
and C. Cao, Sci. Rep. **5**, 16054 (2015). * [19] X. X. Wu, F. Yang, C.
C. Le, H. Fan, and J. P. Hu, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 104511 (2015). * [20]
X. X. Wu, C. C. Le, J. Yuan, H. Fan, and J. P. Hu, Chin. Phys. Lett.
**32**, 057401 (2015). * [21] L. D. Zhang, X. X. Wu, H. Fan, F. Yang,
and J. P. Hu, Europhys. Lett. **113**, 37003 (2016). * [22] H. T. Zhong,
X. Y. Feng, H. Chen, and J. H. Dai, Phys. Rev. Lett. **115**, 227001
(2015). * [23] D. T. Adroja, A. Bhattacharyya, M. Telling, Y. Feng, M.
Smidman, B. Pan, J. Zhao, A. D. Hillier, F. L. Pratt, and A. M. Strydom,
Phys. Rev. B **92**, 134505 (2015). * [24] G. M. Pang, M. Smidman, W. B.
Jiang, J. K. Bao, Z. F. Weng, Y. F. Wang, L. Jiao, J. L. Zhang, G. H.
Cao, and H. Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 220502 (2015). * [25] G. M.
Pang, M. Smidman, W. B. Jiang, Y. G. Shi, J. K. Bao, Z. T. Tang, Z. F.
Weng, Y. F. Wang, L. Jiao, J. L. Zhang, J. L. Luo, G. H. Cao, and H. Q.
Yuan, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **400**, 84 (2016). * [26] J. Yang, Z. T.
Tang, G. H. Cao, and G. Q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. Lett. **115**, 147002
(2015). * [27] W. L. Zhang, H. Li, D. Xia, H. W. Liu, Y. G. Shi, J. L.
Luo, J. Hu, P. Richard, and H. Ding, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 060502
(2015). * [28] H. Z. Zhi, D. Lee, T. Imai, Z. T. Tang, Y. Liu, and G. H.
Cao, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 174508 (2016). * [29] H. Z. Zhi, T. Imai, F.
L. Ning, J. K. Bao, and G. H. Cao, Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**, 147004
(2015). * [30] F. F. Balakirev, T. Kong, M. Jaime, R. D. McDonald, C. H.
Mielke, A. Gurevich, P. C. Canfield, and S. L. Bud’ko, Phys. Rev. B
**91**, 220505 (2015). * [31] M. Greenblatt, W. H. McCarroll, R.
Neifeld, M. Croft, and J. V. Waszczak, Solid State Commun. **51**, 671
(1984). * [32] M. H. Whangbo and E. Canadell, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **110**,
358 (1988). * [33] J. C. Armici, M. Decroux, G. Fischer, M. Potel, R.
Chevrel, and M. Sergent, Solid State Commun. **33**, 607 (1980). * [34]
D. Jerome, A. Mazaud, M. Ribault, and K. Bechgaard, J. Phys. Lett.
**41**, 95 (1980). * [35] K. Bechgaard, K. Carneiro, M. Olsen, F. B.
Rasmussen, and C. S. Jacobsen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **46**, 852 (1981). *
[36] K. Bechgaard, K. Carneiro, F. B. Rasmussen, M. Olsen, G. Handorf,
C. S. Jacobsen, H. J. Pedersen, and J. C. Scott, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**103**, 2440 (1981). * [37] F. Wudl, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **103**, 7064
(1981). * [38] J. K. Bao, L. Li, Z. T. Tang, Y. Liu, Y. K. Li, H. Bai,
C. M. Feng, Z. A. Xu, and G. H. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 180404
(2015). * [39] C. Cao, H. Jiang, X. Y. Feng, and J. Dai, Phys. Rev. B
**92**, 235107 (2015). * [40] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**,
266 (1962). * [41] J. F. Mercure, A. F. Bangura, X. F. Xu, N. Wakeham,
A. Carrington, P. Walmsley, M. Greenblatt, and N. E. Hussey, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **108**, 187003 (2012). * [42] K. D. Nelson, Z. Q. Mao, Y. Maeno,
and Y. Liu, Science **306**, 1151 (2004).
