Muon-spin rotation measurements of the magnetic penetration depth in the
iron-based superconductor Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂

Z. Guguchia,^(1,)1 Z. Shermadini,² A. Amato,² A. Maisuradze,^(1, 2) A.
Shengelaya,³ Z. Bukowski,^(4, 5) H. Luetkens,² R. Khasanov,² J.
Karpinski,⁴ and H. Keller¹

¹Physik-Institut der Universitat Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland

²Laboratory for Muon Spin Spectroscopy, Paul Scherrer Institute, CH-5232
Villigen PSI, Switzerland

³Department of Physics, Tbilisi State University, Chavchavadze 3,
GE-0128 Tbilisi, Georgia

⁴Laboratory for Solid State Physics, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich,
Switzerland

⁵Institute of Low Temperature and Structure Research, Polish Academy of
Sciences, 50-422 Wroclaw, Poland

Footnote 1: email: 10.1103/PhysRevB.84.094513

###### Abstract

Measurements of the magnetic penetration depth λ in the Fe-based
superconductor Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.35, 0.4) were carried
out using the muon-spin rotation (μSR) technique. The temperature
dependence of λ is well described by a two-gap s + s-wave scenario with
a small gap Δ₁≈ 1-3 meV and a large gap Δ₂≈ 7-9 meV. By combining the
present data with those previously obtained for RbFe₂As₂ a decrease of
the BCS ratio $2\Delta_{2}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ with increasing Rb
content x is observed. On the other hand, the BCS ratio
$2\Delta_{1}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ is almost independent of x. In
addition, the contribution of Δ₁ to the superfluid density is found to
increase with x. These results are discussed in light of the suppression
of interband processes upon hole doping.

pacs: 13 June 2011; published 14 September 2011

## I Introduction

The discovery[1] of superconductivity in iron oxypnictide
LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) has generated great interest in the phenomenon of
high temperature superconductivity. The basic units responsible for
superconductivity are the fluorite type [Fe₂_Pn₂_] layers where _Pn_ is
a pnictogen element (P, As, Sb, and Bi). These layers are separated by
spacer layers which play the role of a charge reservoir. In the
fluorite-type layers the Fe atoms are surrounded by four pnictogen atoms
forming a tetrahedron. The first class of iron-based superconductors
studied has the ZrCuSiAs structure (1111 compounds), where the spacer
layer [_Ln_2O₂] has the "antifluoride" or Pb₂O₂ structure. With _Ln_ =
Sm a critical temperature higher than 55 K was observed.[2]

Superconductivity with $T_{\rm c}$ = 38 K was also found in the ternary
systems AFe₂As₂ (Refs. 3 and 4) (122 compounds) adopting the tetragonal
ThCr₂Si₂ structure. In this structure the spacer layer is provided by an
alkali earth element A = Ca, Sr, or Ba. Doping is realized by the
substitution of A by an alkali metal such as K, Cs, or Rb. Several
disconnected Fermi-surface sheets contribute to superconductivity as
revealed by angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES).[5, 6, 7]
Moreover, indications of multigap superconductivity in the system
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ were obtained from the temperature dependence of
the magnetic penetration depth λ by means of muon-spin rotation (μSR)[8]
and ARPES.[5] The magnetic penetration depth is one of the fundamental
parameters of a superconductor since it is closely related to the
density of the superconducting carriers n_(s) and their effective mass
m^(*) via the relation 1/λ² ∝ n_(s)/m^(*). The temperature dependence of
λ reflects the topology of the superconducting gap occurring in the
density of states of the superconducting ground state. The μSR technique
provides a powerful tool to measure λ in type II superconductors.[9]

As demonstrated in previous works,[4, 10] the value of $T_{\rm c}$ for
hole-doped Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ decreases monotonically upon
increasing the Rb content x in the overdoped region. However, in
contrast to the overdoped cuprates, $T_{\rm c}$ remains finite even at
the highest doping level x = 1 with $T_{\rm c}$ = 2.52 K (Ref. 4). A
detailed study of the doping dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ may help to
clarify the origin of high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity in these
iron-based systems. It is thus of importance to investigate the
superconducting properties of optimally doped Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ and
compare the results with those obtained for RbFe₂As₂ (Ref. 10).

In this paper, we report on μSR studies of the temperature and field
dependence of the magnetic penetration depth of optimally doped
Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.35, 0.4). We compare the present data
with the previous results of overdoped RbFe₂As₂ (Ref. 10) and discuss
the combined results in light of the suppression of interband processes
upon hole doping.

## II Experimental details

Polycrystalline samples of Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ were prepared in
evacuated quartz ampoules by a solid state reaction method. Fe₂As, BaAs,
and RbAs were obtained by reacting high purity As (99.999

## III Results and discussion

Figures 1(a) and 1(b) exhibit the transverse-field (TF) muon-time
spectra for Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.4) measured in an applied
magnetic field of μ₀_H_ = 0.04 T above (45 K) and below (1.7 K) the
superconducting (SC) transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$. Above
$T_{\rm c}$ the oscillations show a small relaxation due to the random
local fields from the nuclear magnetic moments. Below $T_{\rm c}$ the
relaxation rate strongly increases due to the presence of a nonuniform
local field distribution as a result of the formation of a flux-line
lattice (FLL) in the SC state. It is well known that undoped BaFe₂As₂ is
not superconducting at ambient pressure and undergoes a spin-density
wave (SDW) transition of the Fe moments far above $T_{\rm c}$ (Ref.
[11]). The SC state can be achieved either under pressure [12, 13] or by
appropriate charge carrier doping [14] of the parent compounds, leading
to a suppression of the SDW state. Magnetism, if present in the samples,
may enhance the muon depolarization rate and falsify the interpretation
of the TF-μSR results. Therefore, we have carried out ZF-μSR experiments
above and below $T_{\rm c}$ to search for magnetism (static or
fluctuating) in Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.35, 0.4). As shown in
Fig. 2(a) no sign of either static or fluctuating magnetism could be
detected in ZF time spectra down to 1.7 K. Moreover, the ZF relaxation
rate is small and changes very little between 45 and 1.7 K. The spectra
are well described by a standard Kubo-Toyabe depolarization function
[15], reflecting the field distribution at the muon site created by the
nuclear moments.

It was reported [16, 17, 18] that in some iron-based superconductors
BaFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂ and SrFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂ field induced magnetism
exists. In the present work TF-μSR spectra measured in different applied
fields (see Fig. 1 for μ₀_H_ = 0.04 T) exhibit a Gaussian-like
depolarization above and below $T_{\rm c}$ that is typical of nuclear
moments and the vortex lattice in polycrystalline samples, respectively.
In the presence of dilute or fast fluctuating electronic moments one
expects an

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) ZF-μSR time spectra for Ba_(0.7)Rb_(0.3)
Fe₂As₂ recorded above and below $T_{\rm c}$. The line represents the fit
to the data of a standard Kubo-Toyabe depolarization function (Ref.
[15]). (b) Temperature dependence of the difference between the internal
field μ₀_H_int,SC measured in the SC state and the one measured in the
normal state μ₀_H_int,NS at T = 42 K.

Figure 1: (Color online) Transverse field (TF) μSR time spectra obtained
in μ₀_H_ = 0.04 T above and below $T_{\rm c}$ (after field cooling the
sample from above $T_{\rm c}$): (a) Ba_(0.7)Rb_(0.3)Fe₂As₂ and (b)
Ba_(0.6)Rb_(0.4)Fe₂As₂. The solid and the dashed lines represent fits to
the data by means of Eq. (1).

exponential depolarization of the TF-μSR spectrum, which is absent in
the present case. Moreover, the SC muon depolarization rate
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ is constant at high fields as shown in Fig. 3(b). In
addition we observed a diamagnetic shift of the internal magnetic field
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm int}$ sensed by the muons below $T_{\rm c}$. This is
evident in Fig. 2(b), where we plot the difference between the internal
field $\mu_{0}H_{\rm int,SC}$ measured in the SC state and one
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm int,NS}$ measured in the normal state at T = 42 K. Note,
that in the systems BaFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂ and SrFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂,
where the field induced magnetism was detected, paramagnetic shift was
observed [16, 17, 18] instead of the expected diamagnetic shift imposed
by the SC state. All these observations indicate that there is no field
induced magnetism in the system Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ down to 1.7 K.
The absence of magnetism in Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ implies that the
increase of the TF relaxation rate below $T_{\rm c}$ is attributed
entirely to the vortex lattice.

The TF μSR data were analyzed by using the following functional form:
[19]

$$P(t)=A\exp\bigg{[}-\frac{\big{(}\sigma_{\rm sc}^{2}+\sigma_{\rm nm}^{2}\big{)} t^{2}}{2}\bigg{]}\cos(\gamma_{\mu_{0}}B_{\rm int}t+\varphi).$$
(1)

Here A denotes the initial asymmetry, γ/(2π) ≃ 135.5 MHz/T is the muon
gyromagnetic ratio, and φ is the initial phase of the muon-spin
ensemble. $B_{\rm int}$ represents the internal magnetic field at the
muon site, and the relaxation rates $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ and
$\sigma_{\rm nm}$ characterize the damping due to the formation of the
FLL in the superconducting state and of the nuclear magnetic dipolar
contribution, respectively. In the analysis $\sigma_{\rm nm}$ was
assumed to be constant over the entire temperature range and was fixed
to the value obtained above $T_{\rm c}$ where only nuclear magnetic
moments contribute to the muon depolarization rate σ. As indicated by
the solid lines in Fig. 1, the μSR data are well described by Eq. (1).
The temperature dependence of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ for
Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.35, and 0.4) at μ₀H = 0.04 T is shown
in Fig. 3(a). Below $T_{\rm c}$ the relaxation rate $\sigma_{\rm sc}$
starts to increase from zero due to the formation of the FLL.

For polycrystalline samples the temperature dependence of the London
magnetic penetration depth λ(T) is related to the superconducting part
of the Gaussian muon spin depolarization rate $\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)$ by
the equation [20]

$$\frac{\sigma_{\rm sc}^{2}(T)}{\gamma_{\mu}^{2}}=0.00371\frac{\Phi_{0}^{2}}{ \lambda^{4}(T)},$$
(2)

where Φ₀ = 2.068 × 10⁻¹⁵ Wb is the magnetic-flux quantum. Equation (2)
is only valid when the separation between the vortices is smaller than
λ. In this case, according to the London model $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ is
field independent. [20] We measured $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ as a function of
the applied field at 1.7 K (see Fig. 3(b)). Each point was obtained by
field cooling the sample from above $T_{\rm c}$ to 1.7 K. First,
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ strongly increases with increasing magnetic field
until reaching a maximum at μ₀H ≃ 0.03 T and then above 0.03 T stays
nearly constant up to the highest field (0.64 T) investigated. Such a
behavior is expected within the London model and is typical for
polycrystalline high temperature superconductors (HTS’s). [21] The
observed field dependence of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ implies that for a
reliable determination of the penetration depth the applied field must
be larger than μ₀H = 0.03 T.

λ(T) can be calculated within the local (London) approximation (λ ≫ ξ)
by the following expression: [19, 22]

$$\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{0,i})}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{0,i})}=1+\frac{1}{ \pi}\int_{0}^{2\pi}\int_{\Delta_{(T,\varphi)}}^{\infty}\left(\frac{\partial f }{\partial E}\right)\frac{Ed\,Ed\varphi}{\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta_{i}(T,\varphi)^{ 2}}},$$
(3)

where $f=[1+\exp(E/k_{\rm B}T)]^{-1}$ is the Fermi function, φ is the
angle along the Fermi surface, and
$\Delta_{i}(T,\varphi)=\Delta_{0,i}\delta(T/T_{\rm c})g(\varphi)$
(Δ_(0, i) is the maximum gap value at T = 0). The temperature dependence
of the gap is approximated by the expression
$\delta(T/T_{\rm c})=\tanh\{1.82[1.018(T_{\rm c}/T-1)]^{0.51}\}$ (Ref.
[23]), while g(φ) describes the angular dependence of the gap and it is
replaced by 1 for both an s-wave and an s + s-wave gap, and |cos (2φ)|
for a d-wave gap. [24]

The temperature dependence of the penetration depth was analyzed using
either a single gap or a two-gap model which is based on the so-called α
model. This model was first discussed by Padamsee _et al._[25] and later
on was successfully used to analyze the magnetic penetration depth data
in HTS’s. [23, 26] According to the α model, the superfluid density is
calculated

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the
superconducting muon spin depolarization rate $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ measured
in an applied magnetic field of μ₀H = 0.04 T for Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂
(x = 0.3, 0.35, 0.4). (b) Field dependence of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ at 1.7
K.

for each component using Eq. (3) and then the contributions from the two
components added together

$$\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T)}{\lambda^{-2}(0)}=\omega_{1}\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{0,1 })}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{0,1})}+\omega_{2}\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{0,2})}{ \lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{0,2})},$$
(4)

where λ⁻²(0) is the penetration depth at zero temperature, Δ_(0, i) is
the value of the fit (i = 1, 2) superconducting gap at T = 0 K, and
ω_(i) is a weighting factor which measures their relative contributions
to λ⁻² (ω₁ + ω₂ = 1).

The results of the analysis for Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.35,
0.4) are presented in Fig. 4. The dashed and the solid lines represent a
fit to the data using an s-wave and a s + s-wave models, respectively.
The analysis appears to rule out the simple s-wave model as an adequate
description of λ(T) for Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.35, 0.4). A
d-wave gap symmetry was also tested, but was found to be inconsistent
with the data. The two-gap s + s-wave scenario with a small gap Δ₁ and a
large gap Δ₂, describes the experimental data remarkably well. The
results of all samples extracted from the data analysis are summarized
in Table 1. A two-gap scenario is in line with the generally accepted
view of multigap superconductivity in Fe-based HTS.[5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28,
29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46,
47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 5 (Uemura line), then
saturates, and finally is suppressed for high carrier doping. The
initial linear trend of the Uemura relation indicates that for these
unconventional HTS’s the ratio T_(c)/E_(F) ($E_{\rm F}$ is the Fermi
energy) is up to two orders of magnitude larger than for conventional
BCS superconductors. Figure 6 shows $T_{\rm c}$ vs σ(0) plot for various
hole- and electron-doped high $T_{\rm c}$ Fe-based superconductors
(after Ref. [28]), including the present results. The solid line shows
the Uemura relation in hole-doped cuprates [51] and the dashed line
corresponds to electron-doped cuprates as observed by Shengelaya _et
al._[32] The Uemura relation for Fe-based superconductors was already
discussed in Ref. [28]. Here, we demonstrate that the data points for
Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.35, 0.4) are located in the Uemura
plot close to those of the other Fe-based superconductors. On the other
hand, for naturally fully overdoped RbFe₂As₂, the ratio T_(c)/σ(0) is
strongly reduced. The small value of ratio T_(c)/σ(0) is characteristic
for conventional superconductors. For comparison the point for
conventional BCS superconductor Nb is also shown on the Uemura plot.
This suggests that superconductivity in the compound RbFe₂As₂ has a more
conventional character. Additional experiments are in progress to
clarify this point.

## IV Summary and conclusion

In summary, we performed transverse-field μSR measurements of the
magnetic penetration depth λ on polycrystalline samples of the
iron-based HTS’s Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.35, 0.4). The values
of the superconducting transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$ and the zero
temperature values of λ were estimated to be $T_{\rm c}$ = 36.9, 35.8,
34 K and λ(0) = 249(15), 250(17), 255(9) nm for x = 0.3, 0.35, and 0.4,
respectively. The temperature dependence of λ is well described by a
two-gap s+s-wave scenario with gap values similar to
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ (Refs. [5] and [8]). ARPES investigations of
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ revealed that the large gap opens on the inner
hole-like Fermi surface (α band) centered at the Γ point and on the
electron-like FS (γ band) centered at the M point (tetragonal structure
notations), while the small gap opens on the outer hole-like band (β) of
the Γ point. [30] We found that the large gap to $T_{\rm c}$ ratio
$2\Delta_{2}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ decreases with increasing Rb content x.
On the other hand, for the small gap opening on the α and γ bands, the
ratio $2\Delta_{1}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ is practically independent of x.
In addition, the contribution of the small gap ω₁ to the total
superfluid density increases with increasing x. These results may be
interpreted by assuming a disappearance of the electron pocket from the
Fermi surface upon the high hole doping, resulting in a suppression of
the scattering processes between the α and γ bands. This might cause the
reduction of $T_{\rm c}$ for the overdoped RbFe₂As₂. We also performed
zero-field μSR experiments and found no evidence of either static or
fluctuating magnetism, implying that the spin-density wave ordering of
the Fe moments is completely suppressed upon Rb doping. The absence of
field induced magnetism in the investigated compounds is also
demonstrated. Finally, the correlation between $T_{\rm c}$ and the
zero-temperature relaxation rate σ(0) ∝ 1/λ²(0) is discussed for the
samples Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.35, 0.4, 1) using the Uemura
classification scheme.

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Superconducting gap to T_(c) ratios
$2\Delta_{1,2}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ and (b) the contribution ω₁ of the
small gap to the superfluid density as a function of the Rb composition
for Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3, 0.35, 0.4, 1.0). The measurements
were performed in an applied magnetic field of μ₀H = 0.04 T. The data
for RbFe₂As₂ are taken from Ref. [10]. The dashed lines represent guides
to the eyes.

Figure 6: (Color online) Uemura plot for hole- and electron-doped high
$T_{\rm c}$ Fe-based superconductors (after Ref. [28]). The Uemura
relation observed for underdoped cuprates is also shown (solid line for
hole doping and dashed line for electron doping) (after Ref. [32]). The
point for conventional BCS superconductor Nb is also shown. Data points
for the pnictides are taken from Refs. [27; 28; 29; 33; 34; 35; 36; 37;
38; 39]. The stars show the data for Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Fe₂As₂ (x = 0.3,
0.35, 0.4) obtained in this work. The point for RbFe₂As₂ is taken from
Ref. [10].

###### Acknowledgements.

Part of this work was performed at the Swiss Muon Source, Paul Scherrer
Institut, Villigen, Switzerland. This work was supported by the Swiss
National Science Foundation, the SCOPES Grant No. IZ73Z0_128242, the
NCCR Project MaNEP, the EU Project CoMePhS, and the Georgian National
Science Foundation Grant No. GNSF/ST08/4-416.

## References

* Kamihara et al. (2008) Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H.
Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * Ren et al. (2008) Z.
A. Ren, W. Lu, J. Yang, W. Yi, X. L. Shen, Z. C. Li, G. C. Che, X. L.
Dong, L. L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z. X. Zhao, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 2215
(2008). * Rotter and Johrendt (2008) M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D.
Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * Bukowski et al.
(2010) Z. Bukowski, S. Weyeneth, R. Puzniak, J. Karpinski, and B.
Batlogg, Physica C **470**, S328 (2010). * Evtushinsky et al. (2009) D.
V. Evtushinsky, D. S. Inosov, V. B. Zabolotnyy, M. S. Viazovska, R.
Khasanov, A. Amato, H.-H. Klauss, H. Luetkens, Ch. Niedermayer, G. L.
Sun, V. Hinkov, C. T. Lin, A. Varykhalov, A. Koitzsch, M. Knupfer, B.
Buchner, A. A. Kordyuk, and S. V. Borisenko, New J. Phys. **11**, 055069
(2009). * Ding et al. (2008) H. Ding, P. Richard, K. Nakayama, K.
Sugawara, T. Arakane, Y. Sekiba, A. Takayama, S. Souma, T. Sato, T.
Takahashi, Z. Wang, X. Dai, Z. Fang, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N. L.
Wang, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 47001 (2008). * Zabolotnyy et al. (2009)
V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. V. Evtushinsky, A. A. Kordyuk, D. S. Inosov, A.
Koitzsch, A. V. Boris, G. L. Sun, C. T. Lin, M. Knupfer, B. Buchner, A.
Varykhalov, R. Follath, and S. V. Borisenko, Nature (London) **457**,
569 (2009). * Khasanov et al. (2009) R. Khasanov, D. V. Evtushinsky, A.
Amato, H.-H. Klauss, H. Luetkens, Ch. Niedermayer, B. Buchner, G. L.
Sun, C. T. Lin, J. T. Park, D. S. Inosov, and V. Hinkov, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **102**, 187005 (2009). * Sonier et al. (2000) J. E. Sonier, J. H.
Brewer, and R. F. Kiefl, Rev. Mod. Phys. **72**, 769 (2000). *
Shermadini et al. (2010) Z. Shermadini, J. Kanter, C. Baines, M.
Bendele, Z. Bukowski, R. Khasanov, H.-H. Klauss, H. Luetkens, H. Maeter,
G. Pascua, B. Batlogg, and A. Amato, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 144527
(2010). * Huang et al. (2008) Q. Huang, Y. Qiu, W. Bao, M. A. Green, J.
W. Lynn, Y. C. Gasparovic, T. Wu, G. Wu, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **101**, 257003 (2008). * Torikachvili et al. (2008) M. S.
Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 057006 (2008). * Miclea et al. (2009) C. F. Miclea, M. Nicklas,
H. S. Jeevan, D. Kasinathan, Z. Hossain, H. Rosner, P. Gegenwart, C.
Geibel, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 212509 (2009). * Zhao et
al. (2008) J. Zhao, Q. Huang, C. de la Cruz, S. Li, J. W. Lynn, Y. Chen,
M. A. Green, G. F. Chen, G. Li, Z. Li, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P.
Dai, Nat. Mater. **7**, 953 (2008). * Kubo and Toyabe (1967) R. Kubo and
T. Toyabe, _Magnetic Resonance and Relaxation_ (North Holland,
Amsterdam, 1967). * Khasanov et al. (2009) R. Khasanov, A. Maisuradze,
H. Maeter, A. Kwadrin, H. Luetkens, A. Amato, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, A.
Leithe-Jasper, and H.-H. Klauss, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 067010
(2009). * Williams et al. (2011) T. J. Williams, A. A. Aczel, E.
Baggio-Saitovitch, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, J. P. Carlo, T. Goko,
H. Kageyama, A. Kitada, J. Munevar, N. Ni, S. R. Saha, K. Kirschenbaum,
J. Paglione, D. R. Sanchez-Candela, Y. J. Uemura, and G. M. Luke, Phys.
Rev. B **82**, 094512 (2010). * Sonier et al. (2011) J. E. Sonier, W.
Huang, C. V. Kaiser, C. Cochrane, V. Pacradouni, S. A. Sabok-Sayr, M. D.
Lumsden, B. C. Sales, M. A. McGuire, A. S. Sefat, and D. Mandrus, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **106**, 127002 (2011). * (19) The data were analyzed with
the fitting package musrfit developed by A. Suter and B. Wojek (see
http://lmu.web.psi.ch/facilities/software/musrfit/user/MUSR/WebHome.html).
The fitting of Eq. (3) was performed using the additional library BMW
developed by B. M. Wojek. * Brandt (1988) E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B
**37**, 2349 (1988). * Pumpin et al. (1990) B. Pumpin, H. Keller, W.
Kundig, W. Odermatt, I. M. Savic, J. W. Schneider, H. Simmler, P.
Zimmermann, E. Kaldis, S. Rusiecki, Y. Maeno, and C. Rossel, Phys. Rev.
B **42**, 8019 (1990). * Tinkham (1975) M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (Krieger, Malabar, FL, 1975). * Carrington and
Manzano (2003) A. Carrington and F. Manzano, Physica C **385**, 205
(2003). * Fang et al. (2008) M. H. Fang, H. M. Pham, B. Qian, T. J. Liu,
E. K. Vehstedt, Y. Liu, L. Spinu, and Z. Q. Mao, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
224503 (2008). * Padamsee et al. (1973) H. Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor, and
C. A. Shiffman, J. Low Temp. Phys. **12**, 387 (1973). * Khasanov et al.
(2007) R. Khasanov, A. Shengelaya, A. Maisuradze, F. La Mattina, A.
Bussmann-Holder, H. Keller, and K. A. Muller, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**,
057007 (2007). * Khasanov et al. (2008) R. Khasanov, K. Conder, E.
Pomjakushina, A. Amato, C. Baines, Z. Bukowski, J. Karpinski, S.
Katrych, H.-H. Klauss, H. Luetkens, A. Shengelaya, and N. D. Zhigadlo,
Phys. Rev. B **78**, 220510 (2008). * Bendele et al. (2010) M. Bendele,
S. Weyeneth, R. Puzniak, A. Maisuradze, E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, V.
Pomjakushin, H. Luetkens, S. Katrych, A. Wisniewski, R. Khasanov, and H.
Keller, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 224520 (2010). * Luetkens et al. (2008) H.
Luetkens, H.-H. Klauss, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, R. Klingeler, I.
Hellmann, N. Leps, A. Kondrat, C. Hess, A. Kohler, G. Behr, J. Werner,
and B. Buchner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 097009 (2008). * Sato et al.
(2009) T. Sato, K. Nakayama, Y. Sekiba, P. Richard, Y.-M. Xu, S. Souma,
T. Takahashi, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and H. Ding, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **103**, 047002 (2009). * Uemura et al. (1989) Y. J. Uemura, G. M.
Luke, B. J. Sternlieb, J. H. Brewer, J. F. Carolan, W. N. Hardy, R.
Kadono, J. R. Kempton, R. F. Kiefl, S. R. Kreitzman, P. Mulherr, T. M.
Riseman, D. Ll. Williams, B. X. Yang, S. Uchida, H. Takagi, J.
Gopalakrishnan, A. W. Sleight, M. A. Subramanian, C. L. Chien, M. Z.
Cieplak, G. Xiao, V. Y. Lee, B. W. Statt, C. E. Stronach, W. J. Kossler,
and X. H. Yu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317 (1989). * Shengelaya et al.
(2005) A. Shengelaya, R. Khasanov, D. G. Eshchenko, D. Di Castro, I. M.
Savic, M. S. Park, K. H. Kim, S. I. Lee, K. A. Muller, and H. Keller,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 127001 (2005). * Luetkens et al. (2008) H.
Luetkens, H.-H. Klauss, M. Kraken, F. J. Litterst, T. Dellmann, R.
Klingeler, C. Hess, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, C. Baines, M. Kosmala, O. J.
Schumann, M. Braden, J. Hamann-Borrero, N. Leps, A. Kondrat, G. Behr, J.
Werner, and B. Buchner, Nat. Mater. **8**, 305 (2009). * Kim et al.
(2010) H. Kim, C. Martin, R. T. Gordon, M. A. Tanatar, J. Hu, B. Qian,
Z. Q. Mao, Rongwei Hu, C. Petrovic, N. Salovich, R. Giannetta, and R.
Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 180503(R) (2010). * Takeshita and Kadono
(2009) S. Takeshita and R. Kadono, New J. Phys. **11**, 035006 (2009). *
Carlo et al. (2011) J. P. Carlo, Y. J. Uemura, T. Goko, G. J.
MacDougall, J. A. Rodriguez, W. Yu, G. M. Luke, P. Dai, N. Shannon, S.
Miyasaka, S. Suzuki, S. Tajima, G. F. Chen, W. Z. Hu, J. L. Luo, and N.
L. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 087001 (2009). * Khasanov et al.
(2008) R. Khasanov, H. Luetkens, A. Amato, H.-H. Klauss, Z.-A. Ren, J.
Yang, W. Lu, and Z.-X. Zhao, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 092506 (2008). *
Khasanov et al. (2010) R. Khasanov, M. Bendele, A. Amato, K. Conder, H.
Keller, H.-H. Klauss, H. Luetkens, and E. Pomjakushina, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**104**, 087004 (2010). * Pratt et al. (2009) F. L. Pratt, P. J. Baker,
S. J. Blundell, T. Lancaster, H. J. Lewtas, P. Adamson, M. J. Pitcher,
D. R. Parker, and S. J. Clarke, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 052508 (2009).
