# Fabrication and superconductivity of Na_(x)TaS₂ crystals

L. Fang,^(1, 2) Y. Wang,¹ P. Y. Zou,¹ L. Tang,¹ Z. Xu,² H. Chen,¹ C.
Dong,¹ L. Shan,¹ and H. H. Wen^(1, •)

¹National Laboratory for Superconductivity, Institute of Physics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.O. Box 603, Beijing 100080, People’s
Republic of China

²Department of Material Science and Engineering, Tongji University,
Shanghai 200092, People’s Republic of China

Received 6 December 2004; revised manuscript received 17 May 2005;
published 22 July 2005

###### Abstract

In this paper we report the growth and superconductivity of Na_(x)TaS₂
crystals. The structural data deduced from x-ray diffraction pattern
shows that the sample has the same structure as 2H-TaS₂. A series of
crystals with different superconducting transition temperatures (T_(c))
ranging from 2.5 K to 4.4 K were obtained. It is found that the T_(c)
rises with the increase of Na content determined by energy-dispersive
x-ray microanalysis(EDX) of scanning electron microscope (SEM) on these
crystals. Compared with the resistivity curve of un-intercalated sample
2H-TaS₂ (T_(c)=0.8 K, $T_{\rm CDW}$= 70 K), no signal of charge density
wave (CDW) was observed in samples Na_(0.1)TaS₂ and Na_(0.05)TaS₂.
However, in some samples with lower T_(c), the CDW appears again at
about 65 K. Comparison between the anisotropic resistivity indicates
that the anisotropy becomes smaller in samples with more Na
intercalation (albeit a weak semiconducting behavior along c-axis) and
thus higher T_(c). It is thus concluded that there is a competition
between the superconductivity and the CDW. With the increase of sodium
content, the rise of T_(c) in Na_(x)TaS₂ is caused mainly by the
suppression to the CDW in 2H-TaS₂, and the conventional rigid band model
for layered dichalcogenide may be inadequate to explain the changes
induced by the slight intercalation of sodium in 2H-TaS₂.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.014534 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **72**, 014534 (2005)

## I Introduction

Layered transition-metal dichalcogenides (TMDC’s) of the type _MX₂_ (M
is the transition metal, _X_= S, Se, Te) have been extensively studied
for their rich electronic properties due to low dimensionality. Each
layer of TMDC’s consists of a hexagonal transition metal sheet
sandwiched by two similar chalcogen sheets, the interaction between the
_MX₂_ layers is weak and van der Waals-like. Charge density wave (CDW)
and superconductivity (SC) coexist in this kind of materials. The
electron-phonon coupling and its relationship with the CDW are
investigated by angle resolved photoemission in 2H-TaSe₂ and 2H-NbSe₂
systems.¹ It is found that the CDW transition temperature decreases and
meanwhile the superconducting critical temperature (T_(c)) increases
from TaSe₂ through TaS₂ and NbSe₂ to NbS₂, which indicates that these
two orders (CDW and superconductivity) compete with each other.^(2, 3)

Intercalation of atoms and molecules into the weak coupled region
between the _MX₂_ layers leads to significant modification of
properties, which is another highlight to study TMDC’s. A variety of
atoms and molecules were reported to be intercalated into the interlayer
regions between the _MX₂_ layers, and the resulting compounds are
superconducting.⁴ Furthermore, different superconducting transition
temperatures T_(c) were found depending on the intercalated ions,^(5, 6)
and the T_(c) increased when the intercalated TMDC’s were further
hydrated.⁷ The change of properties induced by intercalation may be
explained in terms of charge transfer from the intercalated atoms or
molecules to the host _MX₂_ layers, the band structure is unaltered upon
intercalation, and density of states (DOS) at Fermi surface (FS) changes
to reflect the transfer of charges from the intercalated atoms or
molecules. This picture is called as the rigid-band model (RBM). The
validity of this model is supported by some photoemission experiments
and calculations for various intercalates of _MX₂_.⁸ ⁻ ¹¹

In recent years, however, some experiments and calculations revealed
that the change of properties of the intercalated _MX₂_ cannot be
understood based on the rigid-band model. The electrical measurement of
TaS₂(pyridine)_(1/2) showed that there was no signal of CDW in the
resistivity curve, which was attributed to the suppression of a
structural instability by intercalation.¹² Angle-resolved photoemission
was used to study the electronic band structures before and after the
alkaline metal Cs and Na were intercalated into the 2H-TaSe₂ and
VSe₂,¹³ ⁻ ¹⁵ and it was found that the changes induced by intercalation
was more extensive than that expected by the rigid-band model. The
experiment of Na intercalation into 1T-TaS₂ also revealed that the
properties of the CDW phases and the phase transitions are not only
influenced by the shift of the Fermi-level in the Ta 5d band, but also
by the superstructure of the doped Na in the interlayer region.¹⁶

Therefore, it remains controversial whether it is possible to use the
rigid-band model to explain the changes induced by the intercalation in
TMDC’s. In order to unravel this puzzle, more efforts are desired. In
the family of TMDC’s, the sample TaS₂ may be one of the model systems to
tackle this problem. Two basic structures of TaS₂ were found and defined
by the different orientation of stacking chalcogen sheets, one is
1T-TaS₂ with Ta in octahedral coordination with S atoms, another is
2H-TaS₂ with Ta in trigonal-prismatic coordination with S
atoms.^(17, 18) The system 1T-TaS₂ shows four CDW phase transitions
accompanied by changes in lattice parameters and resistivity when
temperature decreases, the CDW formation could be explained by the Fermi
surface nesting.^(16, 17, 19) However, the system 2H - TaS₂ is known for
the existence of CDW order below 70 K and a superconducting transition
at 0.8 K.[17, 19] When sodium ions are intercalated into 2H-TaS₂, T_(c)
increases. Polycrystalline samples of Na_(0.33)TaS₂ were made and
reported to be superconductors below 4.7 K ($T_{c}^{\rm onset}$),[5, 6]
and the T_(c) was increased to 5.5 K when the samples were hydrated.[7]
In this paper, we report the growth of a series of crystals of
Na_(x)TaS₂ (2H) with different superconducting transition temperatures.
Measurements of x-ray diffraction and superconducting transition
revealed good quality of these crystals.

## II Experiment

Most layered compounds are known to intercalate atoms or molecules into
the interlayer regions. A traditional way for fabricating intercalated
layered dichalcogen compounds consists of two steps, the first step is
to prepare polycrystalline compound or single crystal of MX₂ by chemical
reaction or iodine-transport reaction.[7, 20] Secondly, the
intercalation is carried out by chemical treatments, the samples are
dipped into concentrated solutions containing the intercalated atoms,[7,
16, 20] or exposed to metal vapors in a closed ampoule.[16] A new method
suited for preparing samples for the studies of surface science was also
reported, the intercalated compounds were prepared by _in situ_
evaporation of metal atoms to the (0 0 0 1) cleaved surface of the
TMDC’s crystals. This process should be realized under the condition of
ultra high vacuum (UHV).[14, 21]

In this paper, we report the growth of crystals of Na_(x)TaS₂ directly
with the chemical reaction. The starting materials are NaCl, Ta powder
and sulfur powder with purity higher than 99.9

Figure 1 shows an enlarged view of one piece of Na_(0.1)TaS₂ crystals.
The crystal is shiny and thin plateletlike with a clean and smooth
surface. The dimension of the crystal is about 1.7× 1 mm² and the
thickness is about 0.1 mm. Figure 2 shows an enlarged view of the
Na_(0.1)TaS₂ crystal at a corner. It is clear that the sample has a
layered structure.

indexed on the basis of hexagonal with c = 12.082 A, the value is quite
close to the reported value c = 12.070 A,23 and c = 12.097 A (Ref. [18])
of 2H - TaS2. Further comparison with the value of Na0.8TaS2 (_c_ =
14.36 A) indicates that only little content of sodium ions are
intercalated into the interlayer regions of 2H - TaS2 in our present
samples. The space group is P6_m_2, which is the subgroup of 2H - TaS2
(_P_6_/_mmc_). For more Na intercalated samples, the main peaks remain
unshifted and sharp, no obvious change of the _c_-axis constant has been
observed, but some commensurate modulation peaks around each main peak
along the _c_-axis appear. Detailed analysis about these modulations
will be presented in a forthcoming paper. Although the diffraction
pattern is quite clean and the full-width at the half maximum (FWHM) of
the diffraction peak is narrow, we cannot, however, rule out the
possibility of some kind of stacking fault which often appear in the
intercalated crystals. However we would argue that the stacking fault
could be weak in our present case since only very little sodium are
intercalated into the structure. Furthermore it remains unknown whether
the intercalated sodium atoms are in a disordered state or organize into
an ordered lattice.

### AC diamagnetism and EDX of SEM

It is found that both the T_(c) and size of crystal are related to the
cooling rate. Figure 4 shows four superconducting transition curves of
four samples. The T_(c) determined in the diamagnetic measurement
changes from 4.4 K to 3.0 K, which is defined by the onset point of the
real part of the AC susceptibility. The transition width of each curve
is less than 0.5 K, which indicates a complete Meissner shielding
effect. Because the biggest crystal has the highest T_(c), it is natural
to suppose that the increase of T_(c) is related to the change of sodium
content, which is controlled by the time and extent of diffusion. In
order to know the sodium content, these crystals were analyzed with the
EDX of SEM. Taking account of the possible inhomogeneity existing in the
samples, we selected multiple points on each crystal surface and
analyzed. The EDX spectrum showed that the atomic concentration of
different analyzed regions were similar, which indicates that these
crystals are homogeneous. Table I gives the sodium content of crystals
analyzed by EDX of SEM. T_(c) rises roughly with the increase of Na
content in these crystals. As to the crystals with T_(c) are equal to
3.4 K and 3.0 K, respectively, little sodium ions are detected by EDX.
Because the T_(c) of 2H - TaS2 is 0.8 K, thus, the sodium content in
these two crystals are approximately between 0 and 0.05.

Figure 5 shows the EDX spectrum of the Na0.05TaS2 crystal. The
characteristic peak of sodium around 1.1 keV is obvious. No signal of
chlorine ions appear in the spectrum. The spectrum of the Na0.1TaS2
crystal is similar to that of the Na0.05TaS2 crystal, but the peak of
sodium gets enhanced for the former.

Figure 4: AC diamagnetism (_H_AC=1 Oe, f = 333 Hz) for a series of
Na_TaS2 crystals. Analysis using EDX reveals that the sodium content is
slightly different among the samples.

Figure 5: EDX spectrum of the Na0.05TaS2 crystal. The characteristic
peak of sodium around 1.1 keV is obvious.

Figure 3: X-ray diffraction pattern of a NaTaS2 crystal. The _c_-axis
lattice constant determined here is about c = 12.082 Å which is quite
close to that of 2H - TaS2. With increasing the Na content no obvious
change of the _c_-axis constant has been observed in our samples.

It is generally believed that superconductivity in the dichalcogenides
is due to electron-phonon coupling and is of the conventional BCS type.
According to BCS theory, T_(c) rises when the density of states at the
Fermi surface is increased, which is inferred by the following formula:

T_(c) ∝ Θ_(D)exp [−1/N(E_(F))],
(1)

where Θ_(D) is the Debye temperature, V is the electron-electron
interaction which consists of the attractive electron-phonon-induced
interaction subtracted by the repulsive Coulomb interaction, and
N(E_(F)) is the density of states at the Fermi surface. As to our
knowledge, the change of V was rarely reported when atoms or molecules
are intercalated into TMDC’s. Gample _et al._[4] pointed out that the
electron-phonon interaction is confined to the metallic disulfide layers
and insensitive to the distance between MX₂ layers caused by
intercalation. Thus, on the basis of little change of electron-phonon
interaction, it is considered that N(E_(F)) plays an important role for
the increase of T_(c) in Na_(x)TaS₂.

Calculations of DOS for the conduction band of 2H-TaS₂ showed that E_(F)
lies approximately at the mid-point of the d_(z)2 band of Ta, and the
d_(z, 2) band is half-filled (occupied by one electron per formula unit)
and the DOS has a peak at the Fermi level.[9; 10] When sodium ions are
intercalated between the layers of 2H-TaS₂, charges are transferred from
sodium to the d_(z, 2) band of Ta. The rigid-band model of intercalation
suggests that the host band structure is unaltered upon intercalation,
with E_(F) increasing to reflect the transfer of charges from the
intercalant. Consequently the DOS at Fermi surface should decrease. This
is in contradiction to the observation that the T_(c) increases instead
of decreasing when the sodium atoms are intercalated. We will show below
that the DOS at the Fermi level may increase because of the suppression
to the CDW, rather due to the charge transfer.

### The anisotropy of the upper critical field

As to our knowledge, the upper critical field H_(c2)(0) of Na_(x)TaS₂
was rarely reported. We studied H_(c2)(0) of one piece crystal of
Na_(0.1)TaS₂ with T_(c)=4.3 K through diamagnetic and transport
measurement. Figure 6 presents the AC susceptibility under different
magnetic fields. The transition curve moves regularly down to lower
temperatures with increasing the magnetic field. Since the vortex motion
is involved in the AC susceptibility measurement, it is difficult to
define the onset point for superconductivity. Therefore in the following
we will use resistive transport measurement to determine the upper
critical field.

Figure 7 shows the in-plane resistance (_ab_ plane) of the crystal
Na_(0.1)TaS₂ at zero field. Decreasing temperature from 10 K to 4.9 K,
the resistance ρ changes subtly, and an abrupt superconducting
transition happens at 4.83 K, zero resistance is obtained at about 4.3
K. A sharp transition with width less than 0.5 K indicates the good
quality of the crystal Na_(0.1)TaS₂. The zero superconducting transition
temperature is 4.3 K, which is consistent with the result of AC
susceptibility.

In order to determine the upper critical field and the anisotropy of
superconductivity, we measured the resistive transitions at different
magnetic fields with the field direction along the _ab_-plane [Fig.
8(a)] and _c_-axis [Fig. 8(b)]. One can see that the resistive curve
shifts parallel down to lower temperatures with the increase of magnetic
field. From the midpoint of the transition curves, we determine the
upper critical fields for both directions which are shown in Fig. 9. In
the Ginzburg-Landau theory, it is known that H_(c2)=Φ₀/2 πξ² and ξ∝⟨(1 +
2/(1 - t²), with Φ₀ the flux quanta, ξ the coherence length, t=T/T_(c)
the reduced temperature, thus one has

$$H_{c2}(T)=H_{c2}(0)\frac{1-t^{2}}{1+t^{2}}.$$
(2)

We use the above equation to fit our data and show them as the solid and
dashed lines in Fig. 9. The zero temperature upper critical fields
H_(c2)(0) determined in this way are H_(c2)^(i)(0)=2.5T and
H_(c2)^(iab)(0)=16T, therefore the anisotropy
H_(c2)^(iab)(0)/H_(c2)^(i)(0)=ξ_(ab)(0)/ξ_(c)(0)=$\sqrt{m_{c}/m_{ab}}$=6.4,
where m_(c) and m_(ab) are the effective mass tensors when the electrons
are moving perpendicular and parallel to the TaS₂ layers. This

Figure 7: In-plane resistance (_ab_ plane) vs temperature for one piece
of crystal Na_(0.1)TaS₂ under zero field. The transition width is less
than 0.5 K.

Figure 6: AC susceptibility ($H_{\rm AC}$=1 Oe_(c),f=333 Hz) under
different dc magnetic fields for the crystal Na_(0.1)TaS₂. Here the dc
magnetic field is applied along the _c_-axis.

value is quite close to that of optimally doped YBa₂Cu₃O₇. This is to
our surprise since the sample here is clearly of thin-platelet shape
which looks like the much more anisotropic curate system Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈
single crystals. Actually the zero temperature value of upper critical
field can also be determined through the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg
(WHH) formula[24]

$$H_{c2}(0)=-0.693T_{c}\biggl{(}\frac{dH_{c2}}{dT}\biggr{)}_{T=T_{c}}.$$
(3)

Here dH_(c2)/dT is the slope of H_(c2)(T) near T_(c), which is about
0.7163 T/K for H∣c and 4.5 T/K for H∣ab. Using above formula the zero
temperature values of upper critical fields are
$H_{c2}^{\rm{ic}}(0)$=2.137 and $H_{c2}^{\rm{jub}}(0)$=13.4T, which are
close to the values determined in fitting the data to Eq. (2).

### Suppression to CDW by sodium intercalation

Trigonal prismatic layer compound 2H -TaS₂ generally exhibits a
charge-density-wave related phase transition accompanied by a drop in
resistivity around 70 K.[12] It is thus interesting to measure the
resistivity of our samples to high temperatures to see whether the CDW
transition is still there. We thus measured the resistivity of crystals
of Na_(0.1)TaS₂ from 2 K to 300 K. It is found that the resistivity ρ
decreases with the temperature smoothly and the superconducting
transition happens at 4.4 K, no sudden drop of resistance on the
resistivity curve was observed above T_(c). Figure 10 shows the
comparison of resistivity between undoped 2H - TaS₂ and our sample
Na_(0.1)TaS₂. From here it is tempting to conclude that the CDW is
completely suppressed in our samples.

For further verification of the result obtained from Na_(0.1)TaS₂, we
measured the resistivity of one crystal Na_(0.05)TaS₂ and show them in
Fig. 11. The CDW-like drop in resistivity curve is also completely
absent in the temperature region from 2 K to 300 K. This result provides
convincing evidence that there is a competition between the
superconductivity and charge density wave in layered chalcogenide
Na_(x)TaS₂. When sodium ions are intercalated into 2H - TaS₂, CDW order
is destroyed and T_(c) increases. The suppression to the CDW may be
understood by the better c-axis conduction after the sodium
intercalation. In this case the system deviates from two dimensionality
as in 2H - TaS₂ and thus prevents the lattice instability. This is
partially supported by the relatively small anisotropy of m_(c)/m_(ab)
as determined above in the sodium intercalated samples. When the CDW is
suppressed, the effective DOS at the Fermi surface is eventually
enhanced leading to a much higher T_(c).

Figure 8: The superconducting transition measured at different magnetic
fields when the field is applied (a) perpendicular to and (b) parallel
to the c-axis. From the midpoint of the resistive curve one can
determine the upper critical field H_(c2)(T).

Figure 10: Comparison of resistivity between 2H - TaS₂ and Na_(0.1)TaS₂.
For clarity, here we show only the data from 2 K to 90 K. Resistivity of
2H - TaS₂ is adopted from Ref. [11].

Figure 9: The upper critical field determined from the midpoint of the
transition curve. The solid and dashed lines here are theoretical curves
of H_(c2)(T)=H_(c2)(0)[(1 − t²)/(1 + t²)] with
$H_{c2}^{\rm{jcb}}(0)$=2.5T and $H_{c2}^{\rm{jub}}(0)$=16T.

### Anisotropy of resistivity and the competition between
superconductivity and CDW

In pyridine intercalated systems, the anisotropy of DC resistivity is in
the order of 10⁵ along the _c_-axis and _ab_-plane. This extremely high
anisotropy is far beyond the value we can expect in our present system.
Therefore intercalating sodium here may enhance the electrical
conduction along the _c_-axis and suppress the feature of two
dimensionality. To check whether this is true, we measured the in-plane
and off-plane resistivity for two samples, one with x = 0.10 and _T_(c)_
= 4.2 K, and another with x 0.05 and _T_(c)_ = 2.5 K (determined as the
midpoint of the resistive transition). In Fig. 12, we present the
temperature dependence of the (a) in-plane and (b) off-plane resistivity
for the sample with x = 0.10 and _T_(c)_ = 4.2 K. No trace of CDW can be
observed here. Furthermore, one can easily see that the temperature
dependence of the in-plane resistivity for this sample is rather linear
in quite a wide temperature region. This result has been repeated in all
our samples with _T_(c)_ higher than 4 K. This behavior resembles that
of cuprate superconductors at optimal doping (with the highest _T_(c)_
in the same system). It remains an interesting question that whether
this linear behavior observed here has any intact correlation with that
in high-_T_(c)_ cuprate superconductors. We can also determine the
anisotropy of resistivity for this sample at different temperatures. It
is found that _p_(c)/p_(ab)_ is about 63.6 at 10 K and 5.3 at 300 K.
Surprisingly the off-plane resistivity shows a clear semiconducting
behavior indicating totally different electron conduction behavior when
current is flowing along the plane or perpendicular to it. This
interesting weak semiconducting behavior of _c_-axis resistivity has
also been repeated in our samples with high _T_(c)_. Accompanying with
this semiconducting behavior, a _c_-axis lattice modulation (with the
modulation spacing of about 4_c_) has been observed only in these
samples with high _T_(c)_. Detailed analysis about the correlation with
the resistive transport property, CDW and superconductivity is under way
and will be published separately. For the less intercalated sample (_x_
0.05 and _T_(c)_ = 2.5 K), the situation becomes very different. As
shown in Figs. 13(a) and 13(b), one can see that a CDW transition occurs
at about 65 K. Worthy of noting here is the much higher anisotropy of
the resistivity. One can see that _p_(c)/p_(ab)_ is about 5000 at 10 K
and 300 at 300 K. The anisotropy of resistivity in this less
intercalated sample is about 60-100 times higher than that in the more
intercalated sample (_x_ = 0.1, _T_(c)_ = 4.2 K) although a metallic
behavior is observed above _T${}_{\rm CDW}$_ in these less intercalated
samples. The much more higher anisotropy in these less intercalated
samples may also interpret why the CDW appears in this sample. The
strange metal-insulator (M-I) transition of the off-plane resistivity at
_T${}_{\rm CDW}$_ in the present sample is a very interesting issue and
the discussion on it may exceed the scope of this paper. It must be
mentioned that this M-I transition can only be observed in relatively
thick samples (above 0.2 mm). In rather thin samples, the _c_-axis
resistivity shows the similar behavior of the in-plane resistivity
without showing the M-I transition at the _T${}_{\rm CDW}$_. We
attribute the disappearance of the M-I transition to the significant
in-plane component of the total voltage drop on the two voltage leads
attached to the two opposite surfaces if the leads are slightly
asymmetric. Detailed analysis and discussion of the temperature
dependence of resistivity for samples with systematic intercalated Na
content will be presented in a forthcoming paper. We must point out
that, since the thickness of the sample is very thin (typically in the
scale of 0.1 mm to 0.2 mm), to precisely measure the off-plane
resistivity is really a problem. Thus it may subject to correc

Figure 11: Comparison of resistivity between 2H·TaS₂ and Na0.05TaS₂. For
clarity we show here only the data from 2 K to 90 K. Resistivity of
2H·TaS₂ is adopted from Ref. 11.

Figure 12: Temperature dependence of (a) in-plane and (b) off-plane
resistivity for the sample Na0.1TaS₂. One can see that the in-plane
resistivity shows a metallic behavior, but the off-plane one has an
insulating behavior above _T_(c)_. The anisotropy of resistivity is
about 63.6 at 10 K and 5.3 at 300 K. On both curves we cannot see any
trace of CDW. A linear behavior of the in-plane resistivity is observed
in wide temperature range. This resembles that in optimally doped
high-_T_(c)_ cuprate superconductors.

tions in the future with more refined measurements. However the
correction, if any in the future, will be within the range of about 20

## IV Conclusion

A new way to grow crystals of Na_(x)TaS₂ is presented. A series of
crystals with different superconducting transition temperatures T_(c)
ranging from 2.5 K to 4.4 K were obtained. It is found that T_(c) rises
with the increase of Na content determined from the EDX of SEM. Compared
with the resistivity curve of 2H-TaS₂ (T_(c)=0.8 K, $T_{\rm CDW}$≈ 70
K), no signal of charge density wave (CDW) was observed in our present
samples Na_(0.1)TaS₂ and Na_(0.05)TaS₂. The upper critical field and its
anisotropy (about 6.4 for sample with x=0.1 and T_(c) =4.2 K) have also
been determined. The anisotropy of resistivity is strongly suppressed
together with the missing of the CDW in samples with higher T_(c) and
more Na content. In samples with less Na content and lower T_(c), the
CDW can be easily observed. It is concluded that there is a competition
between the superconductivity and the CDW order: The rise of T_(c) in
Na_(x)TaS₂ by increasing the sodium content may be caused by the
increase of DOS at Fermi surface when the CDW is suppressed.

## Acknowledgments

This work is supported by the National Science Foundation of China, the
Ministry of Science and Technology of China (973 Project No.
2006CB01002), and the Chinese Academy of Science within the knowledge
innovation project. The authors are grateful to C. H. Wang, W. W. Huang,
and S. L. Jia for technical assistance and helpful discussions about
some measurements. The authors thank Huan Yang for helping to transform
the graph form.

## References

* [*] Electronic address: hhwen@aphy.iphy.ac.cn * [2] T. Valla, A. V.
Fedorov, P. D. Johnson, J. Xue, K. E. Smith, and F. J. DiSalvo, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **92**, 086401 (2004); **85**, 4759 (2000). * [3] J. A.
Wilson and A. D. Yoffe, Adv. Phys. **28**, 193 (1969). * [4] A. H.
Castro Neto, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4382 (2001). * [5] F. R. Gamble,
J. H. Osiecki, M. Cais, and R. Pisharody, Science **174**, 493 (1971). *
[6] F. Semetz, A. Lerf, and R. Schollhorn, Mater. Res. Bull. **9**, 1597
(1974). * [7] A. Lerf, F. Sernetz, W. Biberacher, and R. Schollhorn,
Mater. Res. Bull. **14**, 797 (1979). * [8] D. C. Johnston, Mater. Res.
Bull. **17**, 13 (1982). * [9] H. P. Hughes and J. A. Scarfe, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **8**, 1439 (1996). * [10] G. Y. Guo and W. Y. Liang, J.
Phys. C **20**, 4315 (1987). * [11] K. Motizuki, N. Suzuki, and S.
Tomishima, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **104**, 681 (1992). * [12] P. Blaa, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **3**, 9381 (1991). * [13] A. H. Thompson, F. R.
Gamble, and R. F. Koehler, Phys. Rev. B **5**, 2811 (1972). * [14] H. E.
Brauer, H. I. Starnberg, L. J. Holleboom, H. P. Hughes, and V. N.
Strocov, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, 9879 (2001). * [15] H. I.
Starnberg, H. E. Brauer, L. J. Holleboom, and H. P. Hughes, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **70**, 3111 (1993). * [16] H. E. Brauer, H. I. Starnberg, L. J.
Holleboom, V. N. Strocov, and H. P. Hughes, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 10031
(1998). * [17] C. Pettenkofer and W. Jaegermann, Phys. Rev. B **50**,
8816

Figure 13: Temperature dependence of (a) in-plane and (b) off-plane
resistivity of a sample Na_(x)TaS₂ with x ≤ 0.05 and T_(c) = 2.5 K. A
clear kink corresponding to the CDW transition can be seen here. One can
also see that the in-plane resistivity shows metallic behavior in wide
region of temperature, but the off-plane resistivity first shows a
metallic behavior above $T_{\rm CDW}$ and an insulating behavior below
$T_{\rm CDW}$=65 K. The anisotropy of resistivity is about 5000 at 10 K
and 300 at 300 K.

* [1994] L. F. Mattheiss, Phys. Rev. B **8**, 3719 (1973). * [20] A.
Meetsma, G. A. Wiegers, R. J. Haange, and J. L. De Boer, Acta
Crystallogr., Sect. C: Cryst. Struct. Commun. **C46**, 1598 (1990). *
[21] A. H. Thompson, Comments Solid State Phys. **7**, 125 (1976). *
[22] A. Schlicht, M. Schwenker, W. Biberacher, and A. Lerf, J. Phys.
Chem. B **105**, 4867 (2001). * [23] C. Pettenkofer, W. Jaegermann, A.
Schellenberger, E. Holub-Krappe, C. A. Papageorgopoulos, M. Kamneros,
and A. Papageorgopoulos, Solid State Commun. **84**, 921 (1992). * [24]
C. Dong, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **32**, 838 (1999). * [25] L. E. Conroy
and K. R. Pisharody, J. Solid State Chem. **4**, 345 (1972). * [26] N.
R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295
(1966).
