Superconductivity, magnetic susceptibility, and electronic properties of
amorphous (Mo_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₈₀P₂₀ alloys obtained by liquid quenching

W. L. Johnson, S. J. Poon, J. Durand, P. Duwez

W. M. Keck Laboratory of Engineering Materials, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125

###### Abstract

Results of x-ray diffraction, transmission-electron diffraction, and
crystallization studies on amorphous (Mo_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₈₀P₂₀ alloys
obtained by liquid quenching are presented and discussed. The alloys are
all found to be superconducting with transition temperatures ranging
from  ∼ 3 to  ∼ 9^(∘)K. The variation of T_(c) with alloy composition is
compared to that obtained by Collver and Hammond for vapor-quenched
transition-metal films. Results of magnetic-susceptibility measurements
are used to estimate the variation of the electronic density of states
at the Fermi level N(0) from the Pauli paramagnetic contribution. The
relationship between the variation of T_(c) and N(0) is discussed in
terms of the microscope theory of superconductivity. Finally, results of
measurements of the upper critical field H_(c2), and the normal-state
electronic transport properties are presented and compared with recent
theoretical models for amorphous superconductors.

## I Introduction

Since the early work of Buckel and Hilsch, [1, 2] interest in the study
of amorphous superconducting metals and alloys has steadily increased. A
review of experimental and theoretical work in this area has been
published by Bergmann.[3] To date most experimental results have
concerned thin films obtained by vapor deposition on a cryogenic
substrate, as amorphous superconducting metals and alloys were until
recently not available in bulk form. The authors have reported
superconductivity in bulk amorphous alloys obtained by the method of
liquid quenching.[4] These amorphous alloys are stable with respect to
crystallization at and well above room temperature. Owing to this
stability and to the relatively large quantity of sample available, it
is possible to carry out measurements of bulk properties such as
specific heat[5] and magnetic susceptibility on these materials.

The transition metals and their alloys form a particularly interesting
class of superconducting materials. Collver and Hammond, [6] have shown
that it is possible to obtain transition metals in amorphous form by
vapor deposition on a substrate held at 4.2 ^(∘)K. For transition metals
of a given series and alloys of neighboring metals in the series, they
observed that the superconducting transition temperature T_(e) follows a
regular dependence on d-band occupation or average group number (AGN). A
broad maximum in the T_(e) vs AGN curve with the maximum occurring at an
AGN corresponding to a roughly half-filled d band was found. This
behavior is in marked contrast to the double-peaked structure
characteristic of crystalline alloys which is commonly referred to as
the Matthias rule. The microscopic origin of the variation of T_(e) in
the amorphous state and its contrast to the crystalline case has been
the subject of several subsequent studies.[7, 8, 9] Unfortunately,
attempts to understand this problem have suffered from a lack of
detailed information regarding the variation of fundamental microscopic
parameters in the amorphous state. Experimental data regarding the
electronic band structure and density of states at the Fermi level,
N(0), are not available. The variation of the Debye temperature and
phonon density of states have likewise not been studied. Such
information is essential to explaining the microscopic origin of the
systematics of T_(e).

In the present work, we report on the properties of several new
amorphous transition-metal alloys prepared in bulk form using the
liquid-quenching technique. The alloys contain 80 at.

Several other properties of this series of alloys have been measured.
Structural data obtained both from electron diffraction and x-ray
diffraction are discussed. High-temperature-resistivity data and
thermal-scanning data are presented which together with the structural
data support the claim that the alloys are amorphous. The temperature
dependence of the upper critical field _H_e2(_T_), and the field
gradient _dH_e2(_T_)/_dT_ have been measured for all alloys of the
series. These data are compared to theoretical predictions. Finally, the
factors which govern the formation of the amorphous phase and its
stability are analyzed and related to the present results.

## II Experimental

The alloy preparation is accomplished in several steps using 99.9

All samples are checked by x-ray diffraction scanning with a Norelec
diffractometer using Cu _K_a radiation. A time lapse step scanning
diffractometer was also used to obtain a more detailed x-ray scan with
improved statistics. Several foils were thinned by etching and used for
electron diffraction studies in a Siemens transmission electron
microscope.

Electrical resistivity measurements were carried out at two stations one
of which can be used for temperatures in the range from 4.2-300 degK,
and a second for temperatures in the range from 300-1200 degK. Thermal
traces were obtained by rapid heating in an evacuated tube with a
platinum-platinum rhodium thermocouple attached to the sample foil.

Magnetic-susceptibility measurements were carried out using the Faraday
method in a superconducting magnet system designed by Oxford
Instruments. The fields used range up to 80 kG and the sample
temperature can be controlled in the range from 2-300 degK. Measurements
of _H_e2(_T_) were carried out in the same system using a separate
probe. The sample is located in an exchange gas container and can be
mounted in three mutually orthogonal directions. Below 10 degK, the
temperature can be measured with an absolute accuracy of +-50 mK and a
relative accuracy of +-1 mK. The _H_e2(_T_) data were obtained by
measuring resistance versus temperature curves for a series of constant
’applied fields. Critical current as a function of applied field and
temperature was also measured. Transition temperatures reported are
defined as the highest temperature for which the resistivity r = 0 in
zero applied field. The transition temperatures were also measured using
an ac induction bridge (at a separate station). The _T_e values obtained
by the two techniques are in good agreement (a maximum discrepancy of
+-0.1 degK is observed). A list of all alloy compositions studied

Table 2: Magnetic susceptibility at high temperature, corresponding
density of states N(0), structure, and AGN of alloys in the present
study along with related data for other amorphous alloys and crystalline
Mo₆₁Ru₃₉ and Mo₄₂Re₅₈.

Nb1a_Ni_x_Ni_x_,33 having an AGN (for the transition-metal components)
of  6.5 can be obtained in amorphous form by liquid quenching. These
alloys also yield stable amorphous phases when prepared in thin-film
form. Based on this observation, it is conjectured that amorphous phase
stability (and the existence of a eutectic) can be associated with
certain preferred AGN values. Using the Collver Hammond results and
those on liquid-quenched alloys, one can determine that alloys having
AGN values of  4.5 and  6.5 are prone to amorphous-phase formation. It
is remarkable that these preferred AGN values coincide with the Matthias
preferred AGN values for obtaining high-_T__e_ superconductors.
McMillan34 has shown that enhanced superconductivity in transition
metals is typically accompanied by an overall softening of the lattice
against harmonic displacements. Gomersall and Gyorffy35 have discussed
the stability of crystal-line phases in terms of this effect and have
attempted to explain Matthias rules. It is tempting to attribute both
lattice softening and the tendency toward amorphous-phase formation to a
common origin. Both can be traced to the response of the d electrons to
atomic distortion or rearrangement. When the _d_-electron gas becomes
highly polarizable as occurs when the electron-phonon coupling
constant.is large, one expects that lattice distortion will be
energetically easier. In this situation the amorphous phase will have a
comparitively lower internal energy with respect to its crystal-line
counterpart.

### Upper critical field and electronic properties

Koepke and Bergmann36 (KB) have measured the upper critical field
H_(eq)(T) for amorphous Mo films obtained by low-temperature vapor
deposition. They report a linear temperature dependence of H_(eq) in
agreement with the present results (Fig. 5). On the other hand, they
find an upper critical-field gradient dH_(eq)(T)/dT = 45 (kG/^(∘)K)
which is considerably larger than that observed for amorphous
(Mo1a_Ru_x_)_so_P20 alloys for which dH_(eq)(T)/dT - 24-28 (kG/^(∘)K).
It is noteworthy that dH_(eq)(T)/dT is nearly independent of x. For a
strong-coupling superconductor, dH_(eq)(T)/dT has been theoretically
expressed as37,38

$$\frac{dH_{eq}(T)}{dT} = - z\frac{4K_{B}e}{\pi}\rho N(0)^{ \ast}\,,$$

where z is a numerical constant very nearly equal to 1, r is the
normal-state electrical resistivity of the sample, and N(0)^(*) is the
electron-phonon dressed density of states at the Fermi level (E_(F) =
0). KB have discussed application of Eq. (10) to their results. In the
present study, we have observed values of _r_ 300 _m_D cm while KB found
_r_ 450 _m_D cm for Mo films. For the alloy (Mo0_x_Ru_x_)_so_P20 we find
_T_e_ 7.3 ^(∘)K, close to that obtained by KB for Mo films. Making the
crude assumption that N(0)^(*) is nearly the same for these two cases,
one can account for most of the difference in dH_(eq)/dT by considering
the difference in r. On the other hand, Eq. (10) does not account for
the constancy of dH_(eq)/dT throughout the (Mo1a_Ru_x_)_so_P20 alloy
series. From the magnetic-susceptibility data (Fig. 8) and the
discussion in Sec. III.3, it is reasonably clear that N(0) decreases
rapidly with increasing Ru concentration. The accompanying rapid
decrease in T_(e) (Fig. 4) implies that the electron phonon coupling
constant λ also decreases with increasing Ru concentration. Thus,
N(0)^(*) = N(0)(1 + λ) must be a rapidly decreasing function of AGN. On
the other hand, r remains nearly constant (Table 1) so that Eq. (10)
predicts a significant decrease in dH_(eq)/dT with increasing AGN. As
dH_(eq)/dT is experimentally found to be nearly constant, it is
concluded that Eq. (10) fails to describe its dependence on AGN. As
mentioned by KB, the combined effect of d and s electrons can render Eq.
(10) inapplicable since the transport mean free path is determined
mainly by s electrons while the superconductivity most probably involves
d electrons as will be discussed in Sec. IV.3. It should be added that
recent tunneling data on amorphous Mo-base alloy films39,40 suggests
that these superconductors are well described by the BCS weak-coupling
theory. Previous work3 on amorphous simple metals has shown them to be
strong-coupling superconductors. KB point out that a value λ ≈ 2 is
required if Eq. (10) is to predict the correct magnitude of dH_(eq)/dT
for amorphous Mo films. In view of the tunneling data, such a large λ
seems highly unlikely. The nearly free-electron model on which Eq. (10)
is based cannot it appears account for the complex behavior of amorphous
transition metals. The role of d electrons must be considered if one is
to understand this behavior.

### Microscopic origin of the variation of T_(e)

Several attempts have been made to explain the systematic variation of
T_(e), observed first by Collver and Hammond,6 for amorphous transition
metals of a given series.7-9 We can use the data obtained in the present
study to help to clarify the role of the various microscopic parameters
which determine T_(e). It is clear from the previous discussion and by
comparison of Figs. 4 and 8 that the electronic density of states at the
Fermi level N(0) plays a major role in determining the variation of
T_(e). Evidence that N(0) plays a significant role in the behavior of
T_(e) has also been obtained by ultra violet photoemission spectroscopy
on amorphous and bcc films of Mo.[41] Though not quantitative, the
photoemission studies indicate a loss of _d_-band structure and an
increase in _N_(0) on passing from bcc crystal-line to amorphous Mo. The
function _N_(_E_), as qualitatively reflected in the photoelectron
energy spec -trum, is a smoothly varying function of E (for E < E_(F) =
0) for amorphous Mo. The present results compliment this picture. In
Fig. 8 the variation with AGN of x and the corresponding density of
states for the (Mo1-_x_Ru_)00P20 alloy series along with data from
(Pd1-_x_Cu_)00P20 alloys leads to the folowing picture of the _4d_ band
of these alloys. It is assumed that phosphorus makes only a small
contribution to _N_(0) arising from _s_-_b_ electrons as discussed in
Sec. IIIC. The _d_-band density of states N_(d)(0) varies smoothly with
_d_-band occupation following a "bell shaped" curve. This curve exhibits
a broad peak at a value of AGN corresponding roughly to a half-filled d
band. This variation is in marked contrast to the crystalline density of
states which show a series of sharp peaks in _N_(0) as a function of
AGN.[30] It is interesting to compare data for amorphous alloys with
data for Mo1Ru39 and Mo12Re58 crystalline alloys having the _s_-phase
structure. The s phase has a complex unit cell containing 30 atoms in
five nonequivalent positions, and _s_-phase alloys typically exhibit a
high degree of atomic disorder. Such a low-symmetry poorly ordered
structure might be expected to have an electronic band structure similar
to an amorphous phase. The density of states _N_(0) for the above
mentioned _s_-phase alloys as deduced from specific-heat data (see Table
II) is included in Fig. 8(b). It is observed that these values of _N_(0)
fall on the amorphous _N_(0) vs AGN curve to within experimental
uncertainty. It is noteworthy that the superconducting transition
temperatures T_(e) = 7.0 and 8.4 *K (respectively, for Mo61Ru39 and
Mo42Re58) also fall close to those observed in the amorphous alloys
having the same AGN. Although this close agreement in Fig. 8(b) may be
fortuitous, it provides evidence that the density of states deduced from
the magnetic-susceptibility data is a meaningful quantity. It is
reasonable to proceed by assuming that the variation of N_(d)(0) is well
represented by the dashed curve in Fig. 8(b). The consequences of such a
_d_-band structure for the microscopic theory of electron-phonon
interactions and superconductivity are now examined.

McMillan[30] has shown that the superconducting transition temperature
can be related to several microscopic parameters through the following
equation:

$$T_{\mathit{e}} = \Theta_{D}/1.45\exp\left( \frac{-1.04(1 + \lambda)}{\lambda - \mu^{*}(1 + 0.62\lambda)} \right),$$

where Th_D_ is the Debye temperature (or a suitably defined average
phonon frequency), l is the electron-phonon coupling constant which may
be expressed in the form

λ = N(0)⟨1²⟩/M⟨ω²⟩

and _m_* represents the Coulomb interaction. In the expression for l,
⟨1²⟩ is an average of the squared electron-phonon matrix element, M the
ionic mass, and ⟨ω²⟩ an average square phonon frequency. The
tight-binding approximation has been shown to give a successful
description of superconductivity in d -band metals.[10, 11] Labbe,
Barasic, and Friedel[10] were the first to point out that simple
relationships among the parameters of Eq. (12) follow from a
tight-binding model. A simple tight-binding picture predicts the
approximate constancy of the product _N_(0) ⟨1²⟩ by the relationship

N(0)⟨1²⟩ ≈ q₀²E_(e) ,

where q₀ is the Slater coefficient for exponential decay of a d orbital
and E_(e) the principal _d_-band contribution to cohesive energy. Varma
and Dynes[11] extended this picture to include non-orthogonality of the
basis functions as parameterized by the overlap integral S. They derive
the interesting approximate relationship

$$\frac{\langle 1^{2} \rangle}{M\langle\omega^{2} \rangle} \propto \frac{(1 + S)\left[ 1 + N(0)W(1 \mp S) \right]}{N(0)}$$

 ≈ W(1 ∓ S) ,

where W is the width of the d band, and the upper and lower signs refer
to the lower and upper half of the d band, respectively. We can take
these results as a rough guide to interpreting the present data in the
context of the tight-binding approximation. We assume that the Fermi
level lies in the nonbonding (upper half) of the d band for the series
of alloys in the present work as the alloys fall in the range of AGN
greater than 6. The positive sign is then appropriate. A rigid-band
picture implies that the bandwidth W is roughly constant for our alloy
series. S is taken to be constant as the Slater coefficient q₀ of the d
orbitals for Mo and Ru will be nearly equal,[10] and the mean
interatomic distance between neighboring atoms does not change with
composition.[42] Equations (12) and (14) then predict that the electron
phonon coupling constant l is proportional to _N_(0). We can compare
this prediction to the present experimental results by assuming that the
density of states curve of Fig. 8(b) accurately represents the variation
of N_(d)(0) with AGN. As previously discussed, we ignore the role of
phosphorous in determining N_(d)(0) as the d levels of phosphorus all
lie well above the Fermi energy of the alloy and are not involved in
superconductivity. Hybridization effects are also ignored within the
spirit of the Varma-Dynes model.

The experimentally observed decrease in T_(e) with increasing AGN (Fig.
4) is then seen to be governed mainly by the variation of N_(d)(0).
Quantitative comparison requires that we deduce λ from T_(e) using the
McMillan equation [Eq. (11)]. To do this, a knowledge of the variation
of Θ_(D) is required. As no specific-heat, neutron-scattering, or
tunneling data are yet available, one can only speculate as to the
variation of Θ_(D) and the details of the phonon spectrum. A few
somewhat quantitative statements can be made. First, if N_(d)(0)
decreases as rapidly with increasing AGN as indicated by Fig. 8(b), then
the corresponding decrease in λ predicted by Eq. (14) would result in a
more rapid decrease of T_(e) than experimentally observed if it were
assumed that Θ_(D) does not change with AGN. If the Varma-Dynes picture
is to give a quantitative account of the data, then Θ_(D) must also
increase with increasing Ru concentration. The required increase of
Θ_(D) would be of the order of 50

## V Summary

It has been demonstrated that alloys based on the 4_d_-transition metals
Mo and Ru may be obtained in amorphous form using the technique of rapid
cooling from the liquid state. The amorphous phases so obtained are
stable up to temperatures of 700-800 degC. The structure of these
materials has been investigated both by x-ray and transmission electron
diffraction techniques and found to be similar to that of other
amorphous alloys for which radial distribution functions have been
computed. Superconductivity has been observed in all of these alloys.
The transition temperatures of the alloys follow a systematic behavior
(with the AGN of the transition-metal constituents) closely resembling
that observed by Collver and Hammond for vapor-quenched transition-metal
films.

The upper critical field H_(e2) depends linearly on temperature and is
characterized by a large gradient dH_(e2)/dT ∼ 25-30 kG/*K for all
alloys of the series. This temperature dependence is not well described
by the theories of Maki or Werthameter. The values of the gradient were
compared with a theoretical expression derived by Rainer, Bergmann, and
Eckhardt. This expression does not account for either the magnitude or
the composition dependence of the gradient.

Magnetization measurements as a function of temperature show that it is
possible to determine the temperature-independent contribution to the
normal-state magnetic susceptibility of the alloys. The Pauli
paramagnetic contribution can be estimated and used to give an estimate
of the electronic density of states at the Fermi level N(0). It is found
that the estimated N(0) values decrease systematically with increasing
AGN of the transition-metal constituent. This variation can be
correlated with the variation in T_(e). Several relationships derived by
Varma and Dynes based on the tight-binding approximation for the d band
of transition-metal alloys are compared with the present data and are
found to be in qualitative agreement with it. It was pointed out that
additional information from specific-heat measurements will be required
if one is to understand the microscopic origin of the variation in T_(e)
in detail. Superconductive tunneling experiments would also be of great
value in providing information concerning the microscopic parameters
which govern superconductivity. By understanding superconductivity in
amorphous transition metals, one might hope to obtain a better
understanding of crystalline transition-metal alloys. Long-range
structural order in crystalline superconductors can perhaps be
considered to result in a refinement of a basic model for electronic
structure which emphasizes the local coordination and short-range order
present in both the crystalline and amorphous state.

## Acknowledgment

The authors wish to thank Art Williams for assistance with the
experimental work and Sumio Kotake for technical assistance. This work
was supported by Department of Energy, Contract No. EY-76-C-03-0822.

*Present address: W. W. Hansen Laboratories of Physics, Stanford
University, Standford, Calif. 94305. *Present address: Laboratoire de
Structure Electronique des Solides, European Research Associates 100, 4
Rue Blaise Pascal, 67000 Strasbourg, France. * [19] W. Buckel and R.
Hilsch, Z. Phys. 138, 109 (1954). * [20] W. Buckel and R. Hilsch, Z.
Phys. 138, 118 (1954). * [21] G. Bergmann, Phys. Rep. 27, 159 (1976). *
[22] W. L. Johnson, S. J. Poon, and P. Duwez, Phys. Rev. B 11, 150
(1975); W. L. Johnson and S. J. Poon, J. Appl. Phys. 46, 1787 (1975). *
[23] W. H. Shull and D. G. Naugle, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc., 22, 403
(1977). * [24] M. M. Collver and R. H. Hammond, Phys. Rev. Lett. 30, 92
(1973). * [25] G. Kerker and K. H. Bennemann, Z. Phys. 264, 15 (1973). *
[26] G. Kecker and K. H. Bennemann, Solid State Commun. 14, 399
(1974). * [27] R. H. Hammond and M. M. Collver, Low Temp. Phys. 3, 532
(1974). * [28] S. Barastic, J. Labbe, and J. Friedel, Phys. Rev. Lett.
25, 919 (1970). * [29] C. M. Varma and R. C. Dynes in _Superconductivity
in d and f band Metals_, edited by D. H. Douglass (Plenum, New York,
1976). * [30] P. Duwez, _Progress in Solid State Chemistry_, (Pergamon,
Oxford, 1966), Vol. 3. * [31] G. S. Cargill III, J. Appl. Phys. 41, 12
(1970). * [32] G. S. Cargill III and R. W. Cochrane, J. Phys. (Paris) 35
C4-269 (1974). * [33] C. N. J. Wagner, J. Vac. Sci. Technol. 6, 650
(1969). * [34] O. Meyer, _New Uses of Ion Accelerators_, edited by J. F.
Ziegler (Plenum, New York, 1975), p. 323. * [35] O. Meyer, _Application
of Ion Beams to Materials_, Inst. Phys. Conf. Ser. 28, 168 (1976). *
[36] W. L. Johnson and C. C. Tsuei, Phys. Rev. B 13, 4827 (1976). * [37]
W. L. Johnson, C. C. Tsuei, and P. Chaudhari Phys. Rev. (to be
published). * [38] K. Togano and K. Tachikawa, Phys. Lett. A 54, 205
(1975). * [39] B. G. Lazarev, L. S. Lazareva, E. E. Semenenko, V. I.
Tutov, and S. I. Goridov, Sov. Phys.-Dokl. 16, 147 (1971). * [40] W. L.
Johnson and S. J. Poon, IEEE Trans. Magn. 11, 189 (1975). * [41] V. M.
Kuz’Menco, V. G. Lazarev, V. I. Mel’Nikov, A. I. Sudoftsov, Zh. Eksp.
Teor. Fiz. 67, 801 (1974). [Sov. Phys.-JETP 40, 396 (1974). * [42] K.
Maki, Physics (N.Y.) 1, 127 (1964); K. Maki, Phys. Rev. 148, 362 (1966);
N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. 147, 288
(1966). * [43] W. L. Johnson and S. J. Poon (unpublished). * [44] G.
Tangonan, PhD. thesis, (California Institute of Technology, 1976)
(unpublished). * [45] R. Kubo and Y. Obata, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 11, 547
(1956). * [46] A. M. Clogston, V. Jaccarino, and Y. Yafet, Phys. Rev.
134, A650, (1964); F. I. Ajamt, R. K. MacCrone, J. Phys. Chem. Solids
36, 7 (1975). * [47] P. Duwez, Ann. Rev. Mater. Sci. 6, 83 (1976). *
[48] D. Turnbull, J. Phys. (Paris) Colloq. 35, 1 (1974). * [49] R. P.
Elliot, _Constitution of Binary Alloys_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1965),
Suppl. 1. * [50] M. M. Collver and R. H. Hammond, (private
communication). * [51] R. C. Ruhl, B. C. Giessen, M. Cohen, and N. J.
Grant, Acta Metall. 15, 1693 (1967). * [52] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev.
167, 331 (1968). * [53] L. R. Gomersall and B. L. Gyorffy, Phys. Rev.
Lett. 33, 1286 (1974). * [54] R. Koepke and G. Bergmann, Solid State
Commun. 19, 435 (1976). * [55] G. Eilenberger and V. Ambegaokar, Phys.
Rev. 168, 332 (1967). * [56] D. Rainer, G. Bergmann, and U. Eckhardt,
Phys. Rev. B 8, 5324 (1973). * [57] C. C. Tsuei, W. L. Johnson, and R.
L. Laibowitz, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. 22, 289 (1977); Solid State Commun.
(to be published). * [58] W. L. Johnson, C. C. Tsuei, S. I. Raider, and
R. L. Laibowitz (unpublished). * [59] B. Schroeder, W. L. Johnson, C. C.
Tsuei, P. Chaudhari, and J. Gradzyk, AIP Conf. Proc. 31, 353 (1976); B.
Schroeder, W. Grobman, W. L. Johnson, C. C. Tsuei, and P. Chaudhari,
_Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on the Physics of
Noncrystalline Solids_, edited by G. H. Frishehat, Trans. Tech.,
Aedermannsdorf, Switzerland, 1977), p. 190−195. * [60] The metallic
radii of Mo and Ru are 1.36 and 1.30 A, respectively, and thus the
nearest-neighbor distance should not change significantly with
composition. The position of the first maximum in the x-ray intensity
function does not change appreciably with composition lending
experimental support to this contention.

Figure 2: (a) Transmission-electron diffraction pattern for a typical
region of an amorphous (Mo_(9_(x)6)Ru_(0_(x)4))₈₀P₂₀ sample. The foil
was thinned by chemical etching; (b) Transmission-electron diffraction
pattern of a region of a (Mo_(0_(x)2)Ru_(0_(x)8))₈₀P₂₀ specimen
containing a microcrystal-lite embedded in an amorphous matrix. Most
regions of this sample showed no evidence of crystallization.
