# Characteristics of the phase transition near 147 K in Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃

C. N. Kuo,¹ H. F. Liu,¹ C. S. Lue,^(1, 2,) L. M. Wang,^(3,) C. C. Chen,⁴
Y. K. Kuo^(4,)

cslue@mail.ncku.edu.tw liminwang@ntu.edu.tw ykkuo@mail.nthu.edu.tw

###### Abstract

In order to assess the phase transition nature in Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃, we have
carried out the electrical resistivity, Hall coefficient, Seebeck
coefficient, thermal conductivity, specific heat, and ¹¹⁹Sn nuclear
magnetic resonance (NMR) measurements, mainly focusing on the signatures
around the phase transition temperature T^(*) = 147 K. The phase
transition has been characterized by marked features near T^(*) in all
measured physical quantities. In particular, the Hall measurement
reveals the abrupt change in both magnitude and sign of the charge
carriers below T^(*), providing strong evidence for the Fermi surface
reconstruction associated with this phase transition. Moreover, the NMR
observations indicate the presence of the splitting of the resonance
lines below T^(*) which could be accounted for by the local distortion
of the Sn2 icosahedra within the $Pm\overline{3}n$ phase. The NMR Knight
shift analysis further provides microscopic evidence for the reduction
in both Sn 5s and Ir 5d electronic states near the Fermi surfaces of
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. With respect to these observations, it suggests that the
strong interplay between electronic and structural instability is
responsible for the peculiar phase transition in Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃.

2014 10.1103/PhysRevB.89.094

### Electrical resistivity

Data of the electrical resistivity ρ were obtained using a standard
four-point probe method. The observed electrical resistivity for
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ is displayed in Fig. 1. The temperature dependence of ρ is
very similar to that reported by Klintberg _et al_. [2], showing a
distinct hump near T^(*) = 147 K and a superconducting phase transition
below T_(c) = 5 K. The normal state resistivity between 5 and 30 K can
be described well to a power law,

ρ(T) = ρ_(o) + AT²,
(1)

where ρ_(o) is the residual resistivity and A is the temperature
coefficient of the electric resistivity. In the upper inset of Fig. 1,
we showed the plot of ρ vs T², with the linear relation yielding ρ_(o) =
1.93 μΩ cm and A = 0.009 μΩ cm/K². The residual resistivity ρ_(o) may
arise from the scattering due to domain boundaries and/or defects by
electrons. The small value of ρ_(o) indicates the high quality of the
present single crystal and gives an estimate of the residual resistivity
ratio [RRR, ρ(300 K)/ρ_(o)] of about 18.4 for our single-crystalline
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃.

It is instructive to mention that the electron-electron scattering rate
at low temperatures should grow as T² in the Fermi liquid picture. The
Kadowaki-Woods ratio A/γ² is usually used to determine the strength of
the electronic correlation of the studied system [19]. Taking A = 0.009
μΩ cm/K² and the low-temperature specific heat coefficient γ = 39.3
mJ/mol K² obtained by Kase _et al_. [1], we found A/γ² = 0.58 × 10⁻⁵μΩ
cm/(mJ/mol K²)² for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. Enhancement of γ can be due to
electron-phonon and electron-electron effects. Based on the reported
electron-phonon coupling constant $\lambda_{\rm ep}$ = 0.983 and the
recent band-structure calculated Fermi-level density of states (DOS) of
approximately 12.5 states/eV f.u. [1,20], we deduced the
electron-electron enhancement term to be λ_(ee) = 24.8, leading to the
electronic specific heat coefficient γ_(e) = 37.8 mJ/mol K². Thus, it is
more realistic to use γ_(e) for calculating the Kadowaki-Woods ratio,
yielding the ratio of A/γ_(e)² = 0.63 × 10⁻⁵μΩ cm/(mJ/mol K²)² for
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. This value is found to be comparable to those of heavy
fermion systems [21], indicating the importance of the strongly
correlated effect on the low-temperature state of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. Here, we
also demonstrated that the large γ value is mainly enhanced by the
electron-electron effect.

It is worthwhile comparing these results to those of Ca₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ which
exhibits superconducting behavior below T_(c) = 7 K and anomalous
features at T^(*) = 38 K [22, 23, 24, 25, 26]. Yang _et al_. estimated
A/γ_(e)² = 1.14 × 10⁻⁵μΩ cm/(mJ/mol K²)² for Ca₃Ir₄Sn₁₃[22], very close
to the value originally identified as characteristic of heavy fermion
materials [27]. It is interesting that the band-structure-calculated
Fermi-level DOS of 12.5 states/eV f.u. and the extracted low-temperature
specific heat coefficient γ = 39-41 mJ/mol K² for Ca₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ are almost
the same as those of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃[20, 22, 24]. Therefore, this comparison
provides evidence for the strong electron-electron correlation on the
low-temperature state of Ca₃Ir₄Sn₁₃, similar to the present case of
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃.

### Hall coefficient

For the Hall coefficient measurement, the single-crystal slabs with a
flat surface of crystalline (110) plane were cut into dimensions of
2.5 × 0.8 × 0.08 mm³. Five leads were soldered with indium and a
Hall-measurement geometry was constructed to allow simultaneous
measurements of both longitudinal (ρ_(xx)) and transverse (Hall)
resistivities (ρ_(xy)) using standard dc techniques. The contact size
was miniaturized as small as possible (<0.2 mm) to avoid large
inaccuracy in the determination of resistivities. Hall voltages were
taken in opposing fields up to 6 T and with an in-plane current density
of about 60 A/cm².

Figure 2(a) shows the temperature variation of the Hall coefficient
R_(H) for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ measured at a constant field H = 3 T. The negative
sign in R_(H) at temperatures above 150 K indicates that the
electron-type carriers dominate its electrical transport. Upon further
cooling, a sharp change in R_(H) accompanying with a sign change takes
place below T^(*). The strong temperature dependence of R_(H) suggests a
multiband character of the Fermi surfaces. Here a simple two-band
picture is sufficient for the realization of the Fermi surface structure
as

$$R_{H}=\frac{\sigma_{n}^{2}R_{n}+\sigma_{p}^{2}R_{p}}{(\sigma_{n}+\sigma_{p})^{2 }},$$
(2)

where R_(n, p) and σ_(n, p) represent the Hall coefficients and
electrical conductivities for the n- and p-type carriers from electronic
and hole bands, respectively. In principle, each parameter is governed
by the scattering relaxation time which varies differently with
temperature. At low temperatures, the p-type carriers have a dominant
contribution, leading to a positive sign in R_(H). A noticeable downturn
in R_(H) appears below 25 K, implying that multiscattering channels are
involved. A similar peak feature prior to T_(c) has been reported in the
strong coupling superconductor of SrPt₃P [28], suggesting that the
joined scattering mechanism plays an important role for the
unconventional superconductivity in this material. Such a scenario could
be appropriate to the present case of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃.

Figure 1: (Color online) Electrical resistivity ρ as a function of
temperature for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. The upper inset displays a plot of ρ vs T²,
showing a linear relation between 5 and 30 K. The lower inset gives a
room-temperature single-crystal x-ray diffraction pattern from the (110)
plane of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. Reflections are indexed with respect to the
Yb₃Rh₄Sn₁₃-type structure (space group $Pm\overline{3}n$).

We also carried out the magnetic field dependence of the transverse Hall
resistivity ρ_(xy) for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ below and above T^(*). As displayed in
Fig. 2(b), the plot of the ρ_(xy)-H curve shows conventional linear
behavior for each temperature, confirming the absence of anomalous Hall
effects in the present experiment. The inset of Fig. 2(a) illustrates
the temperature dependence of the Hall carrier concentration n_(H),
obtained from 1/(R_(H)e). The magnitude of n_(H) was estimated to be
about 10²³ cm⁻³ at room temperature, indicative of the high carrier
density for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. The prominent change in both sign and magnitude
of n_(H) appears near T^(*), providing strong evidence for a significant
change of the electronic band structure across the phase transition.
Therefore, the reduction in n_(H) could be realized as Fermi surface
nesting associated with the superlattice distortion. The abrupt decrease
in the carrier density below T^(*) has also been found in the
isostructural compound of Ca₃Ir₄Sn₁₃, suggesting a similar phase
transition mechanism for both systems [24].

### Seebeck coefficient

Seebeck coefficient and thermal conductivity experiments were
simultaneously performed in a closed cycle refrigerator using a heat
pulse technique. Further details about the experimental techniques for
these measurements can be found elsewhere [29]. It is known that the
Seebeck coefficient is a sensitive probe for the phenomenon associated
with changes in the Fermi surfaces, such as CDW ordering and
crystallographic distortion [6, 30]. The plot of the measured Seebeck
coefficient as a function of temperature for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ is given in Fig.
3. As one can see, the strong temperature variation of S gives evidence
for the presence of a multiband effect. We thus employed a two-band
model as in the case for the Hall coefficient analysis as

$$S=\frac{\sigma_{n}S_{n}+\sigma_{p}S_{p}}{\sigma_{n}+\sigma_{p}},$$

where S_(n, p) are the Seebeck coefficients for the n- and p-type
carriers, respectively. For T < T^(*), the positive sign of S signifies
that the hole-type carriers dominate the thermoelectric transport, being
consistent with the observation from the Hall measurement. With raising
temperature above T^(*), a drastic change in the feature of S has been
noticed. This phenomenon can be understood by an increasing contribution
from the n-type carriers, indicating substantial modification in the
Fermi surfaces across the phase transition. It is worthwhile mentioning
that the present S feature is quite similar to that of SmNiC₂[16], which
has been identified as a 3D CDW system [13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18]. The
comparison thus suggests the possible CDW ordering associated with the
observed phase transition in Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃.

### Thermal conductivity

Figure 4 illustrates the temperature dependence of the observed thermal
conductivity κ for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. In the vicinity of T^(*), a clear drop in
κ, indicated by an arrow, was observed. In principle, the total thermal
conductivity for an ordinary metal is a sum of electronic and lattice
terms. The electronic thermal conductivity (κ_(e)) can be evaluated
using the Wiedemann-Franz law κ_(e)ρ/T = L_(o), where ρ is the
experimental dc electric resistivity and L_(o) = 2.45 × 10⁻⁸ WΩ K⁻² is
the theoretical Lorenz number. The extracted T-dependent κ_(e) for
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ above 50 K is displayed in Fig. 4. Remarkably, κ_(e) also
exhibits a kink at around T^(*), and the feature is identical to the
observed κ. This analysis thus provides a confirmation that the drop in
κ

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the Seebeck
coefficient S for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. The arrow indicates the position of T^(*).

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Hall resistivity as a function of
temperature for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ measured at H = 3 T. The inset shows the
temperature dependence of the Hall carrier concentration. (b) Magnetic
field dependence of the Hall resistivity ρ_(xy) at various temperatures.
Each dashed straight line represents linear behavior.

near T^(*) is essentially caused by the reduction of the electronic
contribution.

The lattice thermal conductivity (κ_(L)), obtained by subtracting κ_(e)
from the experimental κ, is presented in Fig. 4. It is clear that a
small peak in κ_(L) is discerned in the vicinity of T^(*). Similar
observations have been reported in the CDW superconductors of Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀
and Lu₅Rh₄Si₁₀[6, 31]. The excess κ_(L) has been attributed to the
considerable heat carried by the soft phonons during the phase
transition. Such a scenario could be appropriate for the present case of
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. As a matter of fact, the calculated phonon dispersion
indicated several soft phonon modes are responsible for the structural
distortion associated with T^(*)of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃[20].

### Specific heat

Specific heat measurement was performed with a high-resolution ac
calorimeter, using chopped light as a heat source. Further details about
the experimental techniques for these measurements can be found
elsewhere [6]. The temperature-dependent specific heat of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ is
shown in Fig. 5. A spiky feature in C_(p) demonstrates the appearance of
a sharp phase transition at T^(*) = 147 K. The absence of thermal
hysteresis indicates that this transition is second order or weak first
order in nature. To evaluate the change of the entropy associated with
the phase transition, we first determined the specific heat jump
ΔC_(p) ≃ 20.2 J/mol K by subtracting a smooth background, estimated by
fitting the lattice specific heat through the experimental data far from
the transition region. This also reveals an excess specific heat
ΔC_(p)/C_(p) ≃ 14% at T^(*). The temperature dependence of ΔC_(p)/T
around the phase transition is shown in the inset of Fig. 5. A large
entropy change of ΔS ≃ 0.17 R (where R is the ideal gas constant) was
obtained by integrating ΔC_(p)/T through the entire transition region.

It is worthwhile comparing these results to those of Lu₅Ir₄Sn₁₀, which
also exhibits a huge specific heat jump near its CDW phase transition
temperature of about 83 K. The values of ΔC_(p) ≃ 55 and ≃160 J/mol K
have been reported for the polycrystalline and single-crystalline
Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀[5, 6]. The corresponding large entropy changes ΔS ≃ 0.17R and
≃0.5R lead to the conclusion that the nature of CDW in Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀ is
beyond the mean-field description. Since the CDW in Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀ is
associated with the lattice distortion within its 3D crystal structure,
it seems that the appearance of a large specific heat anomaly is a
common feature among the CDW materials arising from lattice instability.
Therefore, the exhibited C_(p) behaviors in Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ are reminiscent
of those observed in Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀, indicative of a similar origin for both
phase transitions.

### Nuclear magnetic resonance

Nuclear magnetic resonance is known as a site-selective tool, yielding
the local information of structural and electronic characteristics for
the studied material. In this investigation, NMR measurements were
carried out using a Varian 300 spectrometer, with a constant field of
7.0868 T. A home-built probe was employed for both room-temperature and
low-temperature experiments [32, 33]. To avoid the skin depth problem of
the rf transmission power, we used a powder sample by crushing the
single crystals of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. The specimen was put in a plastic vial
that showed no observable ¹¹⁹Sn NMR signal.

¹¹⁹Sn (nuclear spin I = 1/2) NMR spectra which were mapped out by
integrating spin echo signals of various excitations are displayed in
Fig. 6. Two ¹¹⁹Sn NMR resonance lines have been resolved at room
temperature. Such an observation is consistent with the existence of two
nonequivalent crystallographic Sr sites, denoted as Sn1 and Sn2, in the
cubic $Pm\overline{3}n$ phase. We assigned the high-frequency line to
Sn1 since the Sn1 atoms occupy the axially symmetric 2a site (in Wyckoff
notations). On the other hand, the Sn2 atoms reside at the 24k site,
which is nonaxially symmetric, and the recognizable NMR line shape
exhibits two distinctive shoulders due to anisotropic Knight shift
effects. The simulated line shapes for

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature variation of the total thermal
conductivity κ for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. The electronic thermal conductivity κ_(e)
was evaluated using the Wiedemann-Franz law. The lattice thermal
conductivity κ_(L) was obtained by subtracting κ_(e) from the
experimental κ. The arrows highlight the position of T^(*).

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature variation of the specific heat
C_(p) for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. The absence of thermal hysteresis near T^(*)
indicates the second-order nature of this phase transition. The dashed
curve represents the background estimated by fitting the lattice
specific heat through the experimental data far from the transition
region. Inset: A ΔC_(p)/T vs T plot in the vicinity of T^(*).

both Sn1 and Sn2 sites were plotted as dotted curves beneath the data
points taken at 297 K. Note that the line-shape areas for Sn1 and Sn2
agree with a ratio of 1:12, according to their site occupations within
the Yb₃Rh₄Sn₁₃-type structure.

To gain more insight into the evolution of the line shape across the
phase transition, we provide several representative spectra taken below
and above T^(*). It is apparent that the linewidth does not exhibit a
dramatic broadening at low temperatures, signifying the nonmagnetic
origin for this phase transition. Below T^(*), the Sn2 site splits into
two peaks, labeled as Sn2-I and Sn2-II, respectively, indicating the
occurrence of two different Sn2 atomic environments. The observed line
shape can be reproduced from simulation, shown as dotted curves beneath
the data points at 77 K. However, the number of the observed peaks is
less than that of the nonequivalent crystallographic Sn sites revealed
from the analysis of low-T XRD [2]. Accordingly, there are four
nonequivalent Sn2 sites due to the distortion of the Sn2 icosahedra
within the $Pm\overline{3}n$ phase. It is not clear why these values
differ, but it is possible for these to be reconciled if the
corresponding spin susceptibility among some Sn sites is similar,
leading to partially unresolved NMR line separation as observed.
Alternatively, the additional Sn2 NMR line below T^(*)could be a
consequence of the CDW formation. In the commensurate CDW phase, the
appearance of one or more NMR splitting lines is expected because of the
influence of the periodic modulation in the electronic density on the
probed nuclei [34]. Such line splitting behavior has been observed in
the well-established commensurate CDW phase of 2H-TaSe₂ below 90 K [35,
36, 37].

Figure 7 illustrates the temperature dependence of the ¹¹⁹Sn NMR Knight
shift ¹¹⁹K for each Sn site of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃, obtained from the simulated
result of the individual NMR spectrum. The values of ¹¹⁹K were referred
to the ¹¹⁹Sn resonance frequency ν_(R) = 112.519 MHz, evaluated from the
nuclear gyromagnetic ratio ¹¹⁹ν_(N)/2π = 1.5867 MHz/kOe. The Knight
shift here is a sum of three parts as
${}^{119}K=K_{\rm orb}+K_{s}+K_{\rm sd}$. The first term $K_{\rm orb}$
is the orbital shift due to the contribution from the Van Vleck orbital
magnetism and the second one K_(s) arises from Sn character electrons.
The effect arising from p electrons can be neglected, due to relatively
weak core polarization from p orbitals [38]. The third term $K_{\rm sd}$
reflects the Ir 5d electronic behavior through the transferred hyperfine
interaction via conduction electrons. As one can see, the Knight shifts
are almost temperature independent for both Sn1 and Sn2 sites as
T > T^(*), in good agreement with the characteristic of a paramagnet.
Lowering the temperature below T^(*), each Knight shift changes
progressively with a rapid drop, consistent with the feature found in
the bulk magnetic susceptibility χ shown in the inset of Fig. 7.
Therefore, the NMR Knight shift analysis provides microscopic evidence
that the reduction in χ is partially related to the decrease in the Sn
5s and Ir 5d electronic states of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. With this accordance, it
indicates that the interplay between electronic and structural
instability is responsible for the peculiar phase transition in
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃.

## III Conclusions

The present investigation shows clear evidence for a pronounced phase
transition in the vicinity of T^(*) = 147 K in Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. Based on the
analyses of the anomalous signatures in the temperature dependencies of
ρ, R_(H), S, and κ_(e) near T^(*), we obtained a precise picture that
the characteristics of the phase transition are highly associated with
the electronic state reconstruction at Fermi surfaces. In addition, the
NMR observations provide concrete evidence that the Fermi surface

Figure 6: (Color online) Evolution of ¹¹⁹Sn NMR spectrum of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃
measured at various temperatures. Above T^(*), each spectrum shows
resolved contributions from two Sn sites. The dotted curves at 297 K are
simulated results for the Sn1 and Sn2 sites, respectively. Distinctive
Sn2-I and Sn2-II NMR resonance lines appear in the spectra at low
temperatures. The simulated curves at 77 K represent isolated components
for the Sn1, Sn2-I, and Sn2-II sites, respectively.

Figure 7: (Color online) Temperature-dependent ¹¹⁹Sn NMR Knight shifts
for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. The dashed vertical line indicates the phase transition
temperature. The inset shows the magnetic susceptibility χ of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃
in the vicinity of T^(*).

modification is essentially related to the slight displacement and/or
distortion of the Sn2 atom from its initial position within the Yb₃
Rh₄Sn₁₃-type structure. While the observed phase transition behavior in
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ resembles the CDW formation in many aspects, the unambiguous
CDW state in Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ will have to wait until there is identification
of charge modulation along a specific wave vector direction by means of
a high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) [12,39].

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful to M. W. Chu of the Center for Condensed Matter Sciences
in National Taiwan University for the help with structural analysis.
This work was supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan under
Grants No. NSC-101-2112-M-006-009-MY2 (C.S.L.), No.
NSC-101-2112-M-002-020-MY2 (L.M.W.), and No. NSC-100-2628-M-259-001-MY3
(Y.K.K.).

## References

* [1] N. Kase, H. Hayamizu, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 184509
(2011). * [2] L. E. Klintberg, S. K. Goh, P. L. Alireza, P. J. Saines,
D. A. Tompsett, P. W. Logg, J. Yang, B. Chen, K. Yoshimura, and F. M.
Grosche, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 237008 (2012). * [3] R. N. Shelton,
L. S. Hausermann-Berg, P. Klavins, H. D. Yang, M. S. Anderson, and C. A.
Swenson, Phys. Rev. B **34**, 4590 (1986). * [4] H. D. Yang, P. Klavins,
and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7681 (1991). * [5] B. Becker, N.
G. Patil, S. Ramakrishnan, A. A. Menovsky, G. J. Nieuwenhuys, J. A.
Mydosh, M. Kohgi, and K. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 7266 (1999). * [6]
Y.-K. Kuo, C. S. Lue, F. H. Hsu, H. H. Li, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B
**64**, 125124 (2001). * [7] Y. -K. Kuo, F. H. Hsu, H. H. Li, H. L.
Huang, C. W. Huang, C. S. Lue, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **67**,
195101 (2003). * [8] S. van Smaalen, M. Shaz, L. Palatinus, P. Daniels,
F. Galli, G. J. Nieuwenhuys, and J. A. Mydosh, Phys. Rev. B **69**,
014103 (2004). * [9] M. Inamdar and S. Ramakrishnan, Phys. Rev. B
**77**, 113103 (2008). * [10] R. Tediosi, F. Carbone, A. B. Kuzmenko, J.
Teyssier, D. van der Marel, and J. A. Mydosh, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
035107 (2009). * [11] F. Galli, S. Ramakrishnan, T. Taniguchi, G. J.
Nieuwenhuys, J. A. Mydosh, S. Geupel, J. Ludecke, and S. van Smaalen,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 158 (2000). * [12] C. M. Tseng, C. H. Chen, and
H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 155131 (2008). * [13] S. Shimomura, C.
Hayashi, G. Asaka, N. Wakabayashi, M. Mizumaki, and H. Onodera, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **102**, 076404 (2009). * [14] J. Laverock, T. D. Haynes, C.
Utfeld, and S. B. Dugdale, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 125111 (2009). * [15] A.
Wolfel, L. Li, S. Shimomura, H. Onodera, and S. van Smaalen, Phys. Rev.
B **82**, 054120 (2010). * [16] J. H. Kim, J. S. Rhyee, and Y. S. Kwon,
Phys. Rev. B **86**, 235101 (2012). * [17] N. Hanasaki, Y. Nogami, M.
Kakinuma, S. Shimomura, M. Kosaka, and H. Onodera, Phys. Rev. B **85**,
092402 (2012). * [18] B. Woo, S. Seo, E. Park, J. H. Kim, D. Jang, T.
Park, H. Lee, F. Ronning, J. D. Thompson, V. A. Sidorov, and Y. S. Kwon,
Phys. Rev. B **87**, 125121 (2013). * [19] K. Kadowaki and S. B. Woods,
Solid State Commun. **58**, 507 (1986). * [20] D. A. Tompsett, Phys.
Rev. B **89**, 075117 (2014). * [21] N. Tsujii, H. Kontani, and K.
Yoshimura, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 057201 (2005). * [22] J. Yang, B.
Chen, C. Michioka, and K. Yoshimura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 113705
(2010). * [23] H. Hayamizu, N. Kase, and J. Akimitsu, Physica C **470**,
S541 (2010). * [24] K. Wang and C. Petrovic, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 024522
(2012). * [25] S. Y. Zhou, H. Zhang, X. C. Hong, B. Y. Pan, X. Qiu, W.
N. Dong, X. L. Li, and S. Y. Li, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 064504 (2012). *
[26] S. Gerber, J. L. Gavilano, M. Medarde, V. Pomjakushin, C. Baines,
E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, and M. Kenzelmann, Phys. Rev. B **88**,
104505 (2013). * [27] G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **56**, 755
(1984). * [28] T. Takayama, K. Kuwano, D. Hirai, Y. Katsura, A.
Yamamoto, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 237001 (2012). * [29]
C. S. Lue, S. H. Yang, A. Abhyankar, Y. D. Hsu, H. T. Hong, and Y. K.
Kuo, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 045111 (2010). * [30] Y. K. Kuo, K. M.
Sivakumar, T. H. Su, and C. S. Lue, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 045115
(2006). * [31] C. S. Lue, Y.-K. Kuo, F. H. Hsu, H. H. Li, H. D. Yang, P.
S. Fodor, and L. E. Wenger, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 033101 (2002). * [32]
C. S. Lue, H. F. Liu, S. L. Hsu, M. W. Chu, H. Y. Liao, and Y. K. Kuo,
Phys. Rev. B **85**, 205120 (2012). * [33] H. F. Liu, C. N. Kuo, C. S.
Lue, K.-Z. Syu, and Y. K. Kuo, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 115113 (2013). *
[34] P. -J. Chu, B. C. Gerstein, H. D. Yang, and R. N. Shelton, Phys.
Rev. B **37**, 1796 (1988). * [35] F. Borsa, D. R. Torgeson, and H. R.
Shanks, Phys. Rev. B **15**, 4576 (1977). * [36] B. H. Suits, S.
Couturie, and C. P. Slichter, Phys. Rev. Lett. **45**, 194 (1980). *
[37] L. Pfeiffer, R. E. Walstedt, R. F. Bell, and T. Kovacs, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **49**, 1162 (1982). * [38]_Metallic Shifts in NMR_, edited by G.
C. Carter, L. H. Bennett, and D. J. Kahan (Pergamon, Oxford, 1977). *
[39] M. H. Lee, C. H. Chen, M.-W. Chu, C. S. Lue, and Y. K. Kuo, Phys.
Rev. B **83**, 155121 (2011).
