# Anisotropic two-gap superconductivity and the absence of a Pauli
paramagnetic limit

in single-crystalline LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂

Y. C. Chan

K. Y. Yip

Y. W. Cheung

Y. T. Chan

J. Kajitani

R. Higashinaka

T. D. Matsuda

Y. Yanase

Y. Aoki

K. T. Lai

Swee K. Goh

Department of Physics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New
Territories, Hong Kong, China Department of Physics, Tokyo Metropolitan
University, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0397, Japan Department of Physics, Kyoto
University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan Shenzhen Research Institute, The
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong,
China

###### Abstract

Ambient-pressure-grown LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂, with a superconducting
transition temperature T_(c) ∼ 3 K possesses a highly anisotropic normal
state. By a series of electrical resistivity measurements with a
magnetic-field direction varying between the crystalline c axis and the
ab plane, we present datasets displaying the temperature dependence of
the out-of-plane upper critical field H_(c2)^(⊥)(T), the in-plane upper
critical field H_(c2)^(⊥)(T), as well as the angular dependence of
H_(c2) at fixed temperatures for ambient-pressure-grown
LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ single crystals. The anisotropy of the
superconductivity, H_(c2)^(⊥)/H_(c2)^(⊥), reaches ∼16 on approaching 0
K, but it decreases significantly near T_(c). A pronounced upward
curvature of H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) is observed near T_(c), which we analyze
using a two-gap model. Moreover, H_(c2)^(∥)(0) is found to exceed the
Pauli paramagnetic limit, which can be understood by considering the
strong spin-orbit coupling associated with Bi as well as the breaking of
the local inversion symmetry at the electronically active BiS₂ bilayers.
Hence, LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ with a centrosymmetric lattice structure is
a unique platform to explore the physics associated with local parity
violation in the bulk crystal.

2017 2018 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018

## II Experiment

Single crystals of LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ were grown by the CsCl flux
method using stoichiometrically mixed starting materials consisting of
La₂S₃ (99.9

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1 shows ρ(T) for C1 from 300 to 2 K at ambient pressure without a
magnetic field. The ρ(T) curve exhibits a semiconducting-like behavior,
which broadly resembles that of polycrystalline samples [13, 18, 19,
24], except for a convex curvature from ∼15 to 200 K. The convex
curvature could be related to the discovery of weak superlattice
reflections at low temperatures by single-crystal x-ray diffraction
[25]. The top inset shows the enlarged ρ(T) curve from 2 to 10 K,
featuring a sharp superconducting transition with the onset temperature
∼5 K. For the quantitative analysis of the superconductivity, we adopt
the "50

Figures 2(a) and 2(b) show ρ(T) for C1 under various magnetic fields
with H ⊥ ab and H ∥ ab, respectively. For H ⊥ ab, T_(c) is greatly
suppressed with an increasing magnetic field. On the contrary, for
H ∥ ab, T_(c) is significantly more robust against the applied field,
indicating a large anisotropy factor γ for LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂. At low
temperatures, the superconducting transition becomes significantly
broader for H ⊥ ab. The broadening can be quantified by
ΔT_(c)/T_(c) = [T_(c)(90%ρ_(n)) − T_(c)(10%ρ_(n))]/T_(c)(50%ρ_(n)). For
H ∥ ab, ΔT_(c)/T_(c) merely increases from ∼0.26 at T_(c) to 0.46 at
0.44T_(c). However, for H ⊥ ab, ΔT_(c)/T_(c) already reaches 0.82 at
0.56T_(c). These in-field behaviors could be due to the poor pinning of
pancake vortices in this anisotropic, two-dimensional superconductor.
This scenario is plausible, since ξ_(⊥) (see below) is less than the
lattice constant c.

Figures 2(c) and 2(d) display the field dependence of electrical
resistivity ρ(H) at different temperatures from 4.0 K

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of resistivity ρ(T) for crystal 1 under
various magnetic fields with (a) H ⊥ ab and (b) H ∥ ab. Field dependence
of resistivity ρ(H) at different temperatures with (c) H ⊥ ab and (d)
H ∥ ab. The black arrow indicates increasing temperatures.
Representative curves covering a longer field range are labeled in the
legend.

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of resistivity ρ(T) at ambient pressure
without a magnetic field for crystal 1. Top inset: the enlarged
resistivity curve near the superconducting transition, with the arrow
indicating the T_(c), defined as 50

down to ∼30 mK with H ⊥ ab and H ∥ ab, respectively. With increasing H
for H ⊥ ab, ρ(H) increases and, at 4.0 and 1.0 K, saturates at the same
field-independent normal state value of 16.0 mΩ cm. This shows that the
magnetoresistance does not vary strongly within the field and
temperature windows of interest. With H ∥ ab, the magnetoresistance is
expected to be even weaker. In fact, the weak magnetoresistance is not
surprising, given the large residual resistivity of the sample. Hence,
we take 16.0 mΩ cm as the universal normal state resistivity for the
determination of H_(c2). Again, H_(c2) determined from ρ(H) is sensitive
to the field direction [note the range of field axes in Figs. 2(c) and
2(d)].

From ρ(T) and ρ(H), we construct the H-T phase diagram for H ∥ ab and
H ⊥ ab, as displayed in Fig. 3. The critical values obtained from both
temperature sweeps (open symbols) and field sweeps (closed symbols)
overlap smoothly, exhibiting excellent agreement with each other. From
these data, ξ_(∥) and ξ_(⊥) can be calculated by using
$H_{c2}^{\perp}=\frac{\Phi_{1}}{2\pi\xi_{\parallel}^{2}}$ and
$H_{c2}^{\parallel}=\frac{\phi_{0}}{2\pi\xi_{\parallel}\xi_{\perp}}$,
resulting in ξ_(∥) ∼ 21.7 nm and ξ_(⊥) ∼ 1.13 nm at 1 K. Our
single-crystal data further reveal two interesting behaviors that have
not been reported in polycrystalline LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ studies [16,
18, 26]. First, H_(c2)^(∥)(T) becomes unexpectedly high when approaching
0 K. Below 2 K, it exceeds the Pauli limited field
H_(p)(0)[T] = 1.84T_(c) [K]  ≈ 7.36 T for weakly coupled BCS
superconductors [27, 28]. Second, a pronounced upward curvature of
H_(c2)^(∥)(T) near T_(c) is observed. These features are unambiguously
not compatible with the one-gap Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) theory
[29]. On the other hand, H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) is much smaller and shows an
upward curvature near 2 K (see the inset of Fig. 3). We have simulated
the temperature dependence of H_(c2) using the WHH theory (dash-dotted
line), and the mismatch between the data and the simulation clearly
implies that the WHH theory is also not applicable to H_(c2)^(⊥)(T).

Muon spin relaxation measurements on AP - LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ suggest
the possibility of the two-gap superconductivity [30]. In addition,
scanning tunneling spectroscopy data on NdO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ reveal the
existence of two superconducting gaps [31]. It has been pointed out that
H_(c2)(T) can be rather unconventional in the presence of multiple
superconducting gaps, as discussed in MgB₂ and several iron-based
superconductors [32, 33, 34]. Inspired by these works, we apply the
two-gap model [35] to analyze the temperature dependence of H_(c2) for
LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂. Within the two-gap model in the dirty limit,
H_(c2)(T) is implicitly described by

a₀[lnt + U(h)][lnt + U(ηh)]
+a₂[lnt + U(ηh)] + a₁[lnt + U(h)] = 0
(1)

with a₁ = 1 + (λ₁₁ − λ₂₂)/[(λ₁₁ − λ₂₂)² + 4λ₁₂λ₂₁]^(1/2),
a₂ = 1 − (λ₁₁ − λ₂₂)/[(λ₁₁ − λ₂₂)² + 4λ₁₂λ₂₁]^(1/2),
a₀ = 2(λ₁₁λ₂₂ − λ₁₂λ₂₁)/[(λ₁₁ − λ₂₂)² + 4λ₁₂λ₂₁]^(1/2), t = T/T_(c),
h = D₁H_(c2)/2ϕ₀T, η = D₂/D₁, and U(x) = ψ(x + 0.5) − ψ(0.5).
$Although the two-gap model in the dirty limit successfully captures the temperature dependence of both \(H_{c2}^{\parallel}$
and H_(c2)^(⊥), the absence of the Pauli limit should be noted:
H_(c2)^(∥)(0) exceeds the Pauli field by a factor of 2. Because of the
large atomic number of Bi, the system has a strong spin-orbit coupling
(SOC). A possible mechanism is spin-orbit scattering, in which the
electron scattering depends on both its spin and orbital angular
momentum in the presence of strong SOC. Theoretical calculations showed
that such a spin-orbit scattering can enhance H_(c2)^(∥)(0) by up to
five times of H_(p)[43]. Another mechanism is related to the spatial
symmetry of the crystal structure. LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ crystallizes in
a centrosymmetric space group P4/mmm, which possesses a global inversion
symmetry. However, upon examining the crystal structure of
LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ (Fig. 1), the electronically active BiS₂ bilayers
do not possess an inversion symmetry. Such a breaking of the local
inversion symmetry can result in a large Rashba-Dresselhaus SOC [44, 45,
46, 47, 48, 49, 44], which locks the spin directions onto the ab plane.
Hence the coupling between the external in-plane field and these spins
is reduced, effectively protecting the Cooper pairs from depairing, and
consequently the Zeeman effect is suppressed. Therefore, the combined
effects from the dirty two-gap case and the strong spin-orbit coupling
can explain the huge enhancement of H_(c2)^(∥)(0) in
LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂. In the isostructural compounds
LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiSe₂ and LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₅, a similar enhancement of
H_(c2)^(∥) at low temperatures has also been reported [50, 51, 52],
which can be understood using the same framework developed for our case.
The anisotropy factor γ at the 0 K limit is 13.6 and 32.3 for
LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiSe₂ and LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiSSe, respectively. Note that
other contributions to H_(c2) enhancement may be possible, such as
strong electron-phonon coupling and localized charge-density waves
predicted by band-structure calculations [20, 21, 53, 54, 55]. Further
investigations will shed light on this issue.

To further investigate the anisotropic superconductivity in
single-crystalline LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂, we measured the angular
dependence of H_(c2) in crystal 2 (C2) at 2, 2.3, and 2.55 K. Although
C2 has a lower T_(c) of 2.84 K, the H-T phase diagram is similar to C1
discussed earlier, as shown in the top inset of Fig. 4. In the main
panel of Fig. 4, the collected H_(c2)(θ) data of C2 are displayed.
H_(c2) is highly sensitive to the field angle, and H_(c2)(θ) can be
reasonably well-described by the two-gap model [35]:

$$H_{c2}(\theta)=\frac{8\phi_{o}(T_{c}-T)}{\pi^{2}[a_{1}D_{1}(\theta)+a_{2}D_{2} (\theta)]}$$
(2)

with the angular-dependent diffusivities D₁(θ) and D₂(θ):

D_(m)(θ) = [D_(m)^((a)2)cos²θ + D_(m)^((a))D_(m)^((c))sin²θ]^(1/2), m = 1, 2,
(3)

where D_(m)^((a)) and D_(m)^((c)) are the principal values of the
diffusivity tensor in the ab plane and along the c axis, respectively.
For this analysis, we also obtain D₂ > D₁ for all angles θ, consistent
with the analysis of H_(c2)(T) exhibited in the top inset of Fig. 4 and
in Fig. 3. For comparison, we also perform an analysis with a one-gap
model by setting a₂ = 0, D₂ = 0, and a₁ = 2. The one-gap model, which is
equivalent to the anisotropic mass model, gives a slightly poorer
description of the data, as evidenced in the dataset at 2.55 K (see the
bottom inset of Fig. 4). Therefore, both the angular dependence and the
temperature dependence of H_(c2) in LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ are in good
agreement with the two-gap model.

Recently, laser-based angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES)
on NdO_(0.71)F_(0.29)BiS₂ revealed the existence of gap nodes on the
same Fermi sheet, giving rise to superconducting gaps of distinct sizes
[56]. These gaps could be responsible for the two-gap physics we
discussed above. A recent calculation discusses the possibility of
having two different gaps on a single Fermi surface sheet, and it shows
that the gaps are connected to the variation of orbital mixing along the
Fermi surface sheet [57]. However, thermal conductivity [58] and
penetration depth [59] measurements on the same Nd-based systems did not
detect the existence of the gap nodes. It has been argued that the laser
ARPES study probes a much smaller, and hence more homogeneous, region
than the other probes. Similar studies on LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂, in which
we observe strong evidence of two-gap superconductivity, are highly
desirable.

## IV Conclusions

In summary, we have measured both the angular- and temperature-dependent
H_(c2) of LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ single crystals. The temperature
dependence of H_(c2) at H ∥ ab shows a pronounced upward curvature, and
at low temperatures H_(c2)^(∥) greatly exceeds the Pauli paramagnetic
limit. We employ a dirty-limit two-gap model to describe our data, and
we discuss the role of spin-orbit coupling resulting from the breaking
of the local inversion symmetry. The angular dependence of H_(c2) can
also be described satisfactorily with the two-gap model.

Figure 4: Angular dependence of H_(c2) for crystal 2 at 2, 2.3, and 2.55
K (solid symbols). The solid lines are the fits using the two-gap model.
The angle θ = 90^(∘) (0^(∘)) corresponds to H ∥ ab (H ⊥ ab). Top inset:
H-T phase diagram constructed for crystal 2, showing a temperature
dependence similar to the sample discussed earlier. Arrows indicate the
temperatures where angular-dependent studies were conducted. Bottom
inset: expanded low-field region for a clearer view of H_(c2)(θ) at 2.55
K.

Our data show that LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ is a highly anisotropic two-gap
spin-orbit coupled superconductor.

###### Acknowledgements.

We acknowledge Corentin Morice for discussion. This work was supported
by Research Grants Council of Hong Kong (GRF/14301316, GRF/14300117)),
CUHK Direct Grants (No. 3132719 and No. 3132720), CUHK Startup (No.
4930048), National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 11504310),
JSPS KAKENHI (JP15H03693, JP15K05178, JP16J05692, JP16K05454,
JP15K05164, and JP15H05745), Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research on
Innovative Areas "J-Physics" (JP15H05884), and "Topological Materials
Science" (JP16H00991). Y.C.C. and K.Y.Y. contributed equally to this
work.

## References

* [1] Y. Mizuguchi, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, K. Suzuki, H. Usui, K.
Kuroki, S. Demura, Y. Takano, H. Izawa, and O. Miura, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 220510 (2012). * [2] S. K. Singh, A. Kumar, B. Gahtori, G.
Sharma, S. Patnaik, and V. P. Awana, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **134**, 16504
(2012). * [3] D. Yazici, I. Jeon, B. D. White, and M. B. Maple, Physica
C **514**, 218 (2015). * [4] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B
**64**, 189 (1986). * [5] M. K. Wu, J. R. Ashburn, C. J. Torng, P. H.
Hor, R. L. Meng, L. Gao, Z. J. Huang, Y. Q. Wang, and C. W. Chu, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **58**, 908 (1987). * [6] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M.
Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [7] M.
Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006
(2008). * [8] D. Yazici, K. Huang, B. D. White, A. H. Chang, A. J.
Friedman, and M. B. Maple, Philos. Mag. **93**, 673 (2013). * [9] Y.
Mizuguchi, T. Hiroi, J. Kajitani, H. Takatsu, H. Kadowaki, and O. Miura,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 053704 (2014). * [10] C. Morice, E. Artacho,
S. E. Dutton, H.-J. Kim, and S. S. Saxena, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**28**, 345504 (2016). * [11] D. Yazici, K. Huang, B. D. White, I. Jeon,
V. W. Burnett, A. J. Friedman, I. K. Lum, M. Nallaiyan, S. Spagna, and
M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 174512 (2013). * [12] Y. Mizuguchi, S.
Demura, K. Deguchi, Y. Takano, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, H. Izawa, and O.
Miura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 114725 (2012). * [13] H. Kotegawa, Y.
Tomita, H. Tou, H. Izawa, Y. Mizuguchi, O. Miura, S. Demura, K. Deguchi,
and Y. Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 103702 (2012). * [14] K.
Deguchi, Y. Mizuguchi, S. Demura, H. Hara, T. Watanabe, S. J. Denholme,
M. Fujioka, H. Okazaki, T. Ozaki, H. Takeya _et al._, Europhys. Lett.
**101**, 17004 (2013). * [15] J. Lee, M. B. Stone, A. Huq, T. Yildirim,
G. Ehlers, Y. Mizuguchi, O. Miura, Y. Takano, K. Deguchi, S. Demura _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 205134 (2013). * [16] R. Higashinaka, R.
Miyazaki, Y. Mizuguchi, O. Miura, and Y. Aoki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**83**, 075004 (2014). * [17] M. Nagao, Novel Supercond. Mater. **1**,
64 (2015). * [18] R. Jha, H. Kishan, and V. P. S. Awana, J. Phys. Chem.
Solids **84**, 17 (2015). * [19] T. Tomita, M. Ebata, H. Soeda, H.
Takahashi, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, Y. Mizuguchi, H. Izawa, O. Miura, S.
Demura _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 063704 (2014). * [20] X.
Wan, H.-C. Ding, S. Y. Savrasov, and C.-G. Duan, Phys. Rev. B **87**,
115124 (2013). * [21] T. Yildirim, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 020506(R)
(2013). * [22] H. Usui, K. Suzuki, and K. Kuroki, Phys. Rev. B **86**,
220501 (2012). * [23] Y. Mizuguchi, A. Miyake, K. Akiba, M. Tokunaga, J.
Kajitani, and O. Miura, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 174515 (2014). * [24] C. T.
Wolowiec, D. Yazici, B. D. White, K. Huang, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev.
B **88**, 064503 (2013). * [25] J. Kajitani _et al._ (unpublished). *
[26] Y. Fang, C. Wolowiec, A. Breindel, D. Yazici, P.-C. Ho, and M.
Maple, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **30** 115004 (2017). * [27] A. M.
Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). * [28] B. S.
Chandrasekhar, Appl. Phys. Lett. **1**, 7 (1962). * [29] N. R.
Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295
(1966). * [30] J. Zhang, K. Huang, Z. F. Ding, D. E. MacLaughlin, O. O.
Bernal, P.-C. Ho, C. Tan, X. Liu, D. Yazici, M. B. Maple _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **94**, 224502 (2016). * [31] J. Liu, D. Fang, Z. Wang, J. Xing,
Z. Du, S. Li, X. Zhu, H. Yang, and H.-H. Wen, Europhys. Lett. **106**,
67002 (2014). * [32] X. Xing, W. Zhou, J. Wang, Z. Zhu, Y. Zhang, N.
Zhou, B. Qian, X. Xu, and Z. Shi, Sci. Rep. **7**, 45943 (2017). * [33]
J. Hanisch, K. Iida, F. Kurth, E. Reich, C. Tarantini, J. Jaroszynski,
T. Forster, G. Fuchs, R. Huhne, V. Grinenko _et al._, Sci. Rep. **5**,
17363 (2015). * [34] F. Hunte, J. Jaroszynski, A. Gurevich, D. C.
Larbalestier, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K.
Christen, and D. Mandrus, Nature (London) **453**, 903 (2008). * [35] A.
Gurevich, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 184515 (2003). * [36] A. Gurevich,
Physica C **456**, 160 (2007). * [37] T. P. Orlando, E. J. McNiff, S.
Foner, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545 (1979). * [38] C.
Tarantini, A. Gurevich, J. Jaroszynski, F. Balakirev, E. Bellingeri, I.
Pallecchi, C. Ferdeghini, B. Shen, H. H. Wen, and D. C. Larbalestier,
Phys. Rev. B **84**, 184522 (2011). * [39] V. P. S. Awana, A. Kumar, R.
Jha, S. K. Singh, A. Pal, Shruti, J. Saha, and S. Patnaik, Solid State
Commun. **157**, 21 (2013). * [40] S.-L. Wu, K. Sumida, K. Miyamoto, K.
Taguchi, T. Yoshikawa, A. Kimura, Y. Ueda, M. Arita, M. Nagao, S.
Watauchi, I. Tanaka, and T. Okuda, Nat. Commun. **8**, 1919 (2017). *
[41] T. Sugimoto, D. Ootsuki, C. Morice, E. Artacho, S. S. Saxena, E. F.
Schwier, M. Zheng, Y. Kojima, H. Iwasawa, K. Shimada _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **92**, 041113 (2015). * [42] Direct estimation of the mean free
path using a single-band Drude model and the measured resistivity value
lead to ℓ_(ρ) ≃ 0.34 nm. This value is much smaller than ℓ estimated
from ξ₀ and ξ₁. Such a small ℓ_(ρ), even slightly smaller than the
lattice constant a, is puzzling. The small ℓ_(ρ) could come from an
overestimation of the effective sample thickness, due to the fact that
LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ is a highly two-dimensional material, and hence the
transport current only flows in the top few layers. Furthermore, the
estimation assumes a single, strictly two-dimensional Fermi surface and
the absence of any Fermi surface gapping (e.g., due to charge order). A
more realistic estimation could change the values of ℓ_(ρ), but is
unlikely to affect the conclusion that both ℓ and ℓ_(ρ) are much smaller
than ξ₀. * [43] R. A. Klemm, A. Luther, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B
**12**, 877 (1975). * [44] M. H. Fischer, F. Loder, and M. Sigrist,
Phys. Rev. B **84**, 184533 (2011). * [45] D. Maruyama, M. Sigrist, and
Y. Yanase, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 034702 (2012). * [46] A. D.
Caviglia, M. Gabay, S. Gariglio, N. Reyren, C. Cancellieri, and J.-M.
Triscone, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 126803 (2010). * [47] S. K. Goh, Y.
Mizukami, H. Shishido, D. Watanabe, S. Yasumoto, M. Shimozawa, M.
Yamashita, T. Terashima, Y. Yanase, T. Shibauchi _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **109**, 157006 (2012). * [48] M. Shimozawa, S. K. Goh, R. Endo,
R. Kobayashi, T. Watashige, Y. Mizukami, H. Ikeda, H. Shishido, Y.
Yanase, T. Terashima _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **112**, 156404
(2014). * [49] X. Zhang, Q. Liu, J.-W. Luo, A. J. Freeman, and A.
Zunger, Nat. Phys. **10**, 387 (2014). * [50] J. Shao, Z. Liu, X. Yao,
L. Zhang, L. Pi, S. Tan, C. Zhang, and Y. Zhang, Europhys. Lett.
**107**, 37006 (2014). * [51] N. Kase, Y. Terui, T. Nakano, and N.
Takeda, Phys. Rev. B **96**, 214506 (2017). * [52] Y. Terui, N. Kase, T.
Nakano, and N. Takeda, J. Phys. Conf. Ser. **871**, 012005 (2017). *
[53] B. Li, Z. W. Xing, and G. Q. Huang, Europhys. Lett. **101**, 47002
(2013). * [54] M. Schossmann and J. P. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **39**,
4210 (1989). * [55] C. Morice, R. Akashi, T. Koretsune, S. S. Saxena,
and R. Arita, Phys. Rev. B **95**, 180505 (2017). * [56] Y. Ota, K.
Okazaki, H. Q. Yamamoto, T. Yamamoto, S. Watanabe, C. Chen, M. Nagao, S.
Watauchi, I. Tanaka, Y. Takano _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **118**,
167002 (2017). * [57] M. A. Griffith, T. O. Puel, M. A. Continentino,
and G. B. Martins, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **29**, 305601 (2017). *
[58] T. Yamashita, Y. Tokiwa, D. Terazawa, M. Nagao, S. Watauchi, I.
Tanaka, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **85**, 073707
(2016). * [59] L. Jiao, Z. Weng, J. Liu, J. Zhang, G. Pang, C. Guo, F.
Gao, X. Zhu, H.-H. Wen, and H. Q. Yuan, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**27**, 225701 (2015).
