# Superconducting characteristics in electron-doped layered hafnium
nitride:

15N isotope effect studies

Hideki Tou,^(1, 2, *) Yutaka Maniwa,^(2, 3) and Shoji Yamanaka⁴

¹Department of Quantum Matter, AdSM, Hiroshima University,
Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8530, Japan

²Department of Physics, Tokyo Metropolitan University, Minami-osawa,
Hachu-oil Tokyo 192-0397, Japan

³CREST, Japan Science and Technology Corporation (AJ), Toshima-ku, Tokyo
171-0031, Japan

⁴Department of Applied Chemistry, Graduate School of Engineering,
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8527, Japan

Received 21 January 2003; published 31 March 2003

###### Abstract

We report ¹⁵N nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and the nitrogen-isotope
effect studies on c-axis oriented sample of Li-doped Hn̄Cl with
superconducting transition temperature T_(c)∼ 25.5 K. ¹⁵N NMR Knight
shift decreases toward zero below T_(c) , giving evidence that the
pairing symmetry is an even-parity spin singlet, and that the nitrogen
site plays an important role in the occurrence of superconductivity. A
nitrogen isotope shift is found to be quite small, ΔT_(c)−0.1 K (α_(N)=
0.07 ± 0.02), which cannot reproduce such a high T_(c) within the
traditional BCS framework.

pacs: 74.70.−b, 74.25.Ha, 76.60.Cq + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.67.100509

The molecular based compounds have attracted a great deal of attention
because of their structural flexibility and intriguing physical
properties. For instance, in fullerene systems the insulating compounds
after intercalation with alkali-metal ions become metallic conductors
accompanied with the expansion of the lattice constant and show
superconductivity at remarkably high T_(c) up to 33 K (Ref. [1]) for
non-cuprate materials.

β-Hn̄Cl is a layered molecular semiconductor, where the Cl-[Hn̄N]-[NHn̄]-Cl
slabs stack along c axis with a band gap of ∼ 4 eV.² ⁻ ⁴ Li atoms are
coinc intercalated with THF (tetrahydrofuran; C₄H₈O) molecules into the
weak van der Waals gap between the Cl layers and the bulk
superconductivity of Li_(x)(THF)_(y)HfNCl appears in the doping contents
of 0.13<_x_ < 0.98 and _y_∼ 0.3. The basal plane spacing d increases
from 9.23 A of β-Hn̄NCl to 18.7 A of Li_(0.48)(THF)_(0.3)HfNCl
(Li-HfNCl).²T_(c) is almost constant (∼ 25.5 K) up to _x_∼ 0.5 but
gradually decreases to ∼ 24.4 K toward _x_∼ 1.³ A simple estimate from
the valency implies a low-carrier density system, i.e., ∼ 10²¹ cm⁻³. An
issue whether the superconductor having a low-carrier density in the
vicinity of insulating phase is conventional or not comes into question
because the electronic properties might be quite different from that in
usual metals.

The electronic structure of Hn̄NCl is dominated by a
quasi-two-dimensional band derived from strong hybridization of planer
hafnium 5_d_(x)_, 5_d_(x² − y²)_ with nitrogen 2_p_(x)_, 2_p_(y)_
orbitals.⁶ ⁻ ⁸ Band structure calculations suggested that this system is
a weakly correlated electron system.⁶ ⁻ ⁸ Such two dimensionality of the
electronic states was actually confirmed by experimental
studies.^(9, 10)

In order to explain the high T_(c)−25.5 K, the exchange of optical
phonons, due to light nitrogen ions with the characteristic frequency of
ω∼ 600 cm⁻¹, between carriers might be a possible mechanism of the high
T_(c) superconductivity in Li-Hn̄NCl. Such an optical phonon mechanism is
believed to be realized in A₃C₃₀ (A is an alkali metal)¹ and recently
discovered MgB₂.¹¹ ⁻ ¹³ In these materials, a substantial
carbon^(14, 15) or boron¹⁶ isotope effect was observed, strongly
supporting the phonon mechanism. As for hafnium nitrides, on the other
hand, the theoretical calculation by Weht _et al_, predicted that the
electron-phonon coupling strength of Hn̄Cl is too small to gain
T_(c)−25.5 K within the phonon mechanism including the optical phonon
mechanism.⁸ Meanwhile, electronic mechanisms such that the pairing
interaction is mediated by the exchange of plasmons between carriers
have been studied from a viewpoint of layered structure, in which the
screening of the Coulomb interaction is very different from that of
three dimensional materials.^(17, 18) Bill and co-workers have provided
an explanation that the high T_(c) in hafnium nitrides is possible to be
realized by the aid of the acoustic plasmon exchange between carriers in
addition to the optical-phonon exchange. Anyway, further experimental
and theoretical examinations are required.

The aim of the present paper is to (1) clarify the symmetry of the
Cooper pairs from ¹⁵N-NMR and (2) elucidate the nature of its
superconductivity from ¹⁵N isotope effect experiments. Here, NMR
Knight-shift studies for superconductors provide directly the orbital
symmetry of the Cooper pairs associated with the pairing interaction.
Isotope effect studies give us an important clue to judge whether it is
conventional superconductivity or not.

For conventional phonon mediated superconductors, we have the versatile
prescription for T_(c) given by McMillan,¹⁹ and Allen and Dynes:²⁰

$$T_{c}\!=\!\frac{\left\langle\omega_{ph}\right\rangle}{1.2}\exp\!\frac{-1.04(1\!+ \!\lambda_{ep})}{\lambda_{ep}-\mu^{*}(1\!+\!0.62\lambda_{ep})},$$
(1)

where ⟨ω_(ph)⟩, λ_(ep) , and μ^(*) are the typical phonon energy,
electron-phonon coupling constant, and the Coulomb pseudopotential,
respectively. A relation of Eq. (1) and mass independent λ_(ep) yields¹⁹

T_(c) ∼ M^(−α),
(2)

where M is the mass of the element and α the isotope shift coefficient.
For the weak electron-phonon coupling theory, α is equal to 0.5. More
detailed theories extended by Garland and McMillan predict slight
deviations from α = 0.5 owing to the Coulomb repulsion μ^(*), as
follows:[19, 21]

$$\alpha\!=\!\frac{1}{2}\left\{1-\frac{1.04(1+\lambda_{ep})(1+0.62\lambda_{ep}) \mu^{\ast\,2}}{[\lambda_{ep}\!-\!\mu^{\ast\,}(1+0.62\lambda_{ep})]^{2}}\right\}.$$
(3)

If the superconductivity of Li-HfNCl is mediated by the phonon
mechanism, the isotope exchange from ¹⁴N to ¹⁵N is expected to bring
about sizable change in T_(c) , such as C₆₀ superconductors[14, 15] and
MgB₂.[16] In general, however, it is necessary to check whether or not
the N site is intrinsic in the pairing. One aspect of this judgement is
¹⁵N-NMR Knight-shift (K) study, where the isotropic part of the Knight
shift (K_(iso)) provides information on the local Fermi-level density of
states at an interesting atomic site through the Fermi contact hyperfine
interaction.[22] NMR Knight-shift studies therefore bring about not only
the important information on the pairing symmetry, but also local
electronic state at nitrogen site.

The ¹⁵N-enriched β-HfNCl was prepared by the method using a sealed glass
tube;[3] 99

In Fig. 1, we show the ¹⁵N (I = 1/2) NMR spectra of (a) pure HfNCl and
(b) Li-HfNCl obtained by the Fourier-transform technique of
free-induction decay signals, together with (c) the expected powder line
shapes (for details, see figure caption). Here, we assume that the
principal axes of chemical shift σ̃ and Knight shift K̃ are the same and
the total shift tensor σ̃ + K̃ is given by (σ₁ + K₁, σ₁ + K₁, σ₃ + K₃),
where 2 σ₁ + σ₃ = 0 and 2 K₁ + K₃ = 0. Since the honeycomb lattice has
threefold rotational symmetry, we can apply the axial-symmetric model to
the present materials. Here we should note that the linewidth for
Li-HfNCl is very narrow in comparison with that for pure HfNCl. This
means that the traceless anisotropic part of the chemical and Knight
shift have opposite sign from each other.

The spectra for Li-HfNCl show the negative isotropic shift of
K_(iso) =  − 65 ppm with respect to the isotropic shift of the pure
HfNCl indicating that the Knight shift at ¹⁵N site is dominated by a
core polarization-type contact hyperfine interaction where spins on the
outer 2 p shell polarize the inner s shells. Knight-shift tensors are
extracted to be (K₁, K₂, K₃) = (35, 35,  − 70) ppm (see caption of Fig.
1). Also, the Knight-shift anisotropy indicates that a finite
conduction-electron density exists at nitrogen p_(x) and p_(y) states.
Actually, this is confirmed by the fact that the calculated
K₁^(cal) ∼ 33 ppm is consistent with the value, K₁ = 35 ppm, extracted
experimentally. Here in calculation, we use the relation of

$$K_{1}^{cal}\!=\!0.4\left\langle\frac{1}{r^{3}}\right\rangle_{E_{F}}\!\sim\!0. 4\frac{N^{N}(E_{F})}{N(E_{F})}\left\langle\frac{1}{r^{3}}\right\rangle X_{s}\,,$$
(4)

where N^(N)(E_(F)) ∼ 0.035 states/(eV spin f.u.).[6, 7]N(E_(F))∼  − 0.25
(states/eV spin f.u.),[5](1/r³) ∼ 3.1/a_(B)³, and χ_(s) = 1.7× 10⁻⁵
emu/mol³ are the partial Fermi-level density of states at nitrogen site,
total Fermi-level density of states, nitrogen 2p expectation value of
1/r³, and the Pauli susceptibility, respectively. The present result
agrees well with the predictions from band-structure calculations that
the conduction band has mixed Hf 5 d_(xy), 5 d_(z² − y²), and N 2 p_(x),
2 p_(y) character. Thus, the nitrogen site should be relevant to the
superconductivity.

In Fig. 2, we show the temperature dependence of ¹⁵N NMR shift, ¹⁵δ₁,
for H ∥ ab plane. The δ₁ ∼ − 106 ppm above T_(c) increases toward
∼  − 88 ppm in the superconducting state. This can be explained by the
combined effect of the decrease of the spin susceptibility in the
superconducting state and the superconducting diamagnetic contributions.

Figure 1: ¹⁵N NMR spectra in (a) pure Hf¹⁵NCl and (b) Li-Hf¹⁵NCl (No.3)
measured at 40.540 MHz and T = 25 K. (c) Expected powder line shapes:
(l) in the case of axial-symmetric chemical shift tensor with
(σ₁, σ₂, σ₃) = (−76, − 76, 152) ppm, (l) in the case of the
axial-symmetric Knight shift tensor of (K₁, K₂, K₃) = (35, 35,  − 70)
ppm, (l) in the case of coexistence of axial-symmetric chemical shift
and Knight shift tensors of (σ₁+ K₁, σ₁ + K₁, σ₃ + K₃) = (−41, − 41, 82)
ppm, (lV) observed shift tensor δ₁ = σ₁ + K₁ + K_(iso), with
K_(iso) =  − 65 ppm.

That is, the observed shift in the normal state given by
δ₁ = σ₁ + K₁ + K_(iso) (−76) + (+ 35) + (−65) = −106 ppm should become
δ₁ = σ₁ + K₁ + K_(iso) + δ_(data) (− 76) + (0) + (0) + (−10) = −86 ppm
at 4.2 K in the superconducting state for the spin-singlet state.[24]
Here, we take into account the superconducting diamagnetic shift
δ_(dia) −10 ppm extracted from the CI-NMR for H → 94 K0e.[23] A good
agreement between the calculation (−86 ppm) and observed value (∼−88
ppm) provides direct evidence that the pairing symmetry is a even-parity
spin singlet and that the nitrogen site is actually relevant to pair
formation.

Figure 3 shows the dc magnetic-susceptibility data measured at applied
field of 5 G parallel to the oriented c axis for the field cooling of
Li-Hf¹⁴NCl and Li-Hf¹⁵NCl. The data show clearly the occurrence of the
Meissner shielding at the onset temperature of ∼25.5 K and ∼25.4 K for
Li-Hf¹⁴NCl and Li-Hf¹⁵NCl, respectively. The plotted magnetization data
are all normalized to unity at 4 K for easier comparison (see inset).
The nitrogen isotope coefficient α_(N) was calculated to be α_(N) = 0.07
± 0.02, using a relation α_(N) = − (Δln T_(c)(N)/Δln M_(N)). Here,
T_(c)’s were determined at the 5

The obtained value of α 0.07 is quite small and excludes the weak
coupling case of λ_(ep)<0.3 within the phonon mechanism[21] because α
becomes 0.5 using μ*∼ 0 in order to gain T_(c) = 25.5 K. That is, the
small isotope exponent of 0.07 implies a relatively large Coulomb
repulsion; high T_(c) involves this large Coulomb repulsion and then
implies a large λ_(ep).[19] To check this, in Fig. 3(b) we show T_(c) ,
μ* vs λ_(ep) curves using Eqs. (1) and (3) for α 0.07. We found,
however, that the observed T_(c) cannot be reproduced for ⟨α_(ph)⟩/k_(B)
= 300 K, which is the upper limit among the conventional
superconductors, except A₃C₆₀ and MgB₂.[19] Although the McMillan
relation gives us underestimates of T_(c) (40

Instead, we found that T_(c) ∼ 25.5 K can be reproduced by using the
optical phonon of ⟨ω_(ph)⟩/k_(B) = 850 K (∼ 600 cm⁻¹) for the
strong-coupling case, same as MgB₂ or A₃C₆₀. However, the obtained
parameters of μ* ∼ 0.35 and λ_(ep) 1.35 seem to be quite extraordinary
to realize the conventional phonon mediated superconductivity
nevertheless.[5, 8] At present, the origin of the small isotope shift is
still unclear and remains an open question. Actually, the recent
tunneling spectroscopy experiments by Ekino _et al._ provided the
Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) ratio of 2.2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) 5,[26] which is
inconsistent with the theoretical prediction that the BCS ratio should
be close to ∼3.5 in the case of optical-phonon mechanism even for the
strong electron-phonon coupling case.[27]

Such discrepancies may be reconciled in such a context that the
electronic structure of Li-HfNCl is rather two

Figure 3: (a) Sections near T_(c) of the Meissner curves of several
samples of Li-HfNCl at the field of 5 G for H∥c axis. Inset shows
normalized Meissner curves of samples No.1 and No.3 for field cooling,
where the change of T_(c) due to isotope exchange cannot be
distinguished. (b) T_(c) , μ* vs λ_(ep) calculated using Eqs. (1) and
(3) for α = 0.07.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of ¹⁵N NMR shift for H∥ab plane
measured at 40.540 MHz.

-dimensional [9, 10, 18] than those of A₃C₆₀ or MgB₂. Anyway,further
experimental and theoretical examinations are desirable.

In summary, ¹⁵N NMR measurements and the N-isotope effect studies were
carried out on Li-doped HNCl with T_(c)∼25.5 K. The NMR measurements
demonstrated that the pairing symmetry is an even-parity spin singlet,
and that the nitrogen site plays an important role in the occurrence of
superconductivity. The isotope effect studies revealed a quite small
nitrogen isotope shift which is too small to explain the high T_(c)∼
25.5 K within the conventional BCS framework.

The authors gratefully acknowledge H. Kohno, K. Miyake, T. Ekino, I.
Hase, and S. Shamoto for their informative discussions. This work was
supported by grants and the COE Grant No. 13CE2002 from the Ministry of
Education, Sport, Science and Culture in Japan.

## References

* [1] K. Tanigaki _et al._, Nature (London) **352**, 222 (1991). * [2]
S. Yamanaka, K. Hotehama, and H. Kawaji, Nature (London) **392**, 580
(1998). * [3] S. Yamanaka, Annu. Rev. Mater. Sci. **30**, 53 (2000). *
[4] S. Shamoto _et al._, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **60**, 1431 (1999). *
[5] H. Tou, Y. Maniwa, T. Koiwasaki, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**86**, 5775 (2001). * [6] I. Hase and Y. Nishihara, Phys. Rev. B
**60**, 1573 (1999); Physica B **281-282**, 788 (2000). * [7] C. Felser
and R. Seshadri, J. Mater. Chem. **9**, 459 (1999). * [8] R. Weht, A.
Filippetti, and W.E. Pickett, Europhys. Lett. **48**, 320 (1999). * [9]
H. Tou, Y. Maniwa, T. Koiwasaki, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **63**,
020508(R) (2001). * [10] T. Yokoya _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 153107
(2001). * [11] J. Nagamatsu _et al._, Nature (London) **410**, 63
(2001). * [12] J. Kortus _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4656
(2001). * [13] H.J. Choi _et al._, Nature (London) **418**, 758
(2002). * [14] A.P. Ramirez _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1058
(1992). * [15] C.C. Chen and C.M. Lieber, Science **259**, 655 (1993). *
[16] S.L. Bud’ko _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). * [17]
H. Kohno, K. Miyake, and H. Harima, Physica B **312-313**, 148 (2002). *
[18] A. Bill, H. Morawitz, and V.Z. Kresin, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 100501
(2002). * [19] W.L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [20]
P.B. Allen and R.C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 905 (1975). * [21] J.W.
Garland, Phys. Rev. Lett. **11**, 114 (1963). * [22] C. P. Slichter,
_Principles of Magnetic Resonance_, Springer Series in Solid-State
Science Vol. 1 (Springer-Verlag, New York, 1996). * [23] H. Tou, Y.
Maniwa, S. Yamanaka, and M. Sera, Physica B (to be published). * [24] K.
Yosida, Phys. Rev. **110**, 769 (1958). * [25] H. Tou _et al._, Physica
C **341-348**, 2139 (2000). * [26] T. Ekino, T. Takasaki, H. Fujii, and
S. Yamanaka, Physica B (to be published). * [27] F. Marsiglio and J.P.
Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 6141 (1986).
