# Vortex phase diagram of HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+_d thin films from
magnetoresistance measurements

Wan-Seon Kim, W. N. Kang, Mun-Seog Kim, and Sung-Ik Lee

National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

29 November 1999; revised manuscript received 13 January 2000

###### Abstract

We have investigated the resistive behavior of HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+_d_ thin
films from the Arrhenius form _r_(_T_,_H_) = r0 exp(-_U_0/_T_). The
effective activation energy, _U_e = - _d_(ln _r_)/_d_(1/_T_) = U0 -
_T_dU_0/_dT_, is compared with the model based on thermally activated
flux flow (TAFF), where U0(_T_,_H_) = U0(0,_H_)(1 - _T_/_T_)32. In a
limited temperature region, _T_* < T < _T_H_, _r_(_T_) follows the TAFF
behavior, and this region is regarded as the pinned liquid state. In the
TAFF region, all curves for the effective activation energy for
different magnetic fields converge onto one line with a scaling factor
U0(0,_H_) proportional to 1/_H_. The crossover temperature, _T_ff,
separates TAFF from free flux flow. The intermediate region, _T_int < T
< _T_*, where _T_int is the temperature of irreversibility, is called
the critical state and is between a pinned liquid and a vortex solid.
Finally, based on these analyses, we determine the dynamic vortex phase
diagram for different pinning behaviors of the vortex.

The vortices within an extremely clean superconductor can move freely
even for a small driving current. Once flux lines move with velocity
**v**, an electric field **E** = **B x (**v**/_c_) is induced, and
thereby the power dissipates. However, in a material containing
structural defects or impurities, the movement of the vortex can be
blocked by such disorders. Owing to the vortex pinning effect, the
vortex phase diagram in the _H_-_T_ plane is divided by the
vortex-melting or the vortex-glass lines. Between the true
superconducting vortex-solid state and _H_c2(_T_), there exists a
vortex-liquid state with activated or diffusive vortex movement. The
activated behavior originates from thermally activated flux flow (TAFF)
for T < U0 while the diffusive behavior originates from the free-flux
flow (FF) for T > U0, where the activation energy U0 is in temperature
units. The resistivity due to TAFF has been studied extensively for
high-temperature superconductors, such as Bi2Sr2Ca2O8 (Bi-2212) (Ref. 1)
and YBa2Ca3O7 (YBCO).2-5

The vortex dynamics between the two very different superconductors YBCO
and Bi-2212 have shown quite interesting features. In the case of
Bi-2212, due to a strong two-dimensional nature, the TAFF region extends
to significantly lower temperatures. In this low-temperature region U0,
which is proportional to H_(c)²ξ_(1, 3)³ is a slowly varying function of
temperature. Palstra _et al._1,4 measured _r_(_T_) for Bi-2212 and
obtained the temperature-independent activation energy U0 in a limited
temperature region. On the other hand, for YBCO, the TAFF region is very
narrow, and the variation of U0(_T_) is large for this less anisotropic
superconductor. The study of the transport for the intermediate
anisotropic superconductor HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+_d_ (Hg-1223) will be quite
interesting because it will provide a bridge between the behavior of a
highly anisotropic superconductor and that of a less anisotropic
superconductor.

In this paper, we present an analysis of the activation energy
U0(_T_,_H_) for Hg-1223 thin films. Systematic transport measurements
for Hg-1223 have not yet been reported due to a lack of high-quality
samples. However, we were able to deposit high-quality thin films, so
transport measurements and an analysis of _U_e based on the TAFF model
were possible. The analysis showed various behaviors, such as the FF,
the TAFF, the critical-state, and the vortex solid behaviors. At a
certain temperature T = _T_*, an abrupt increase in the effective
activation energy with decreasing temperature was observed. In addition,
the scaling of the activation energy was also obtained. Based on these
analyses, the dynamic vortex phase diagram of the moderately anisotropic
superconductor Hg-1223 was determined.

In the TAFF region, the longitudinal resistivity is represented by the
form r = r0 exp(- U0/_T_). Because it can be described by ln r = -
U0/_T_, many studies have assumed that the slope of the Arrhenius curve
is directly equal to the activation energy U0, corresponding to the
derivative form - _d_(ln _r_)/_d_(1/_T_). Generally, however, U0 depends
on the temperature. Thus, the slope of a simple Arrhenius plot does not
correspond to the actual activation energy U0. As the activation energy
is typically proportional to H_(c)²ξ₁³, it can be represented by

U₀(T, H) = U₀(0, H)(1 − T/T_(c))^(β),

where the field dependency is included in U0(0,_H_) and b is an
exponent. Among the several models for U0(_T_,_H_), we will consider two
models, one by Tinkham3 and the other by Yeshurun and Malozemoff.2
According to the former, U0(_t_,_H_) = U0(0,_H_)(1 - t2)(1 - t4)1/2
whereas in the latter, U0(_t_,_H_) = U0(0,_H_)(1 - t3)32, where t =
_T_/_T_c_ is a reduced temperature. Yeshurun and Malozemoff assumed two
things. First, _x_(_T_) and _H_c(_T_) are in the clean-limit forms,
i.e., _H_c = 1.73_H_c0(1 - _T_/_T_c_) and _x_(0 1 - _T_/_T_c_)-1/2.
Second, if x is large, then x3 should be replaced by _x_a_02, where a0
is the flux-lattice spacing. With those assumptions, then b = 3/2 is
natural. Once we accept the form of U0 in Eq. (1) and define _U_e = -
_d_(ln _r_)/_d_(1/_T_), then
$$U_{\rm e}(T,H) = U_{0}(T,H)-TdU_{0}(T,H)/dT$$
(2)
$$= U_{0}(0,H)(1-T/T_{\rm c})^{\beta}\biggl{[}1+\frac{\beta(T/T_{\rm c} )}{1-T/T_{\rm c}}\biggr{]}.$$
(3)

This equation reduces to Eq. (1) in the limit
$T/T_{\rm c}\!\rightarrow\!0$.

High-quality Hg-1223 thin films were grown with Re-doped Ba₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(x)
precursor powder by using pulsed-laser deposition followed by post
annealing of Hg. The as-grown film on (100) SrTiO₃ exhibited a
zero-resistance transition at 131 K with a narrow transition width of ∼
2 K after oxygen annealing at 340 ^(∘)C, as shown in the inset of Fig.
1(a). From the magnetization measurement, the critical current density
was estimated to be ∼ 10⁶A/cm² at 77 K in zero field. The
x-ray-diffraction pattern indicated highly c-axis-oriented thin films
with phase purities more than 95

Figures 1(a) and 1(b) show the Arrhenius plots of ρ(T, H) for external
fields from 1 to 9 T and the slope −d(ln ρ)/d(1/T) as functions of
temperature, respectively. The external magnetic fields were applied
parallel to the c axis of the thin film. In Fig. 1(a), one can see that
the slope strongly depends on the temperature. This feature is in sharp
contrast to the case of Bi-2212. As Palstra _et al._[1, 4] reported
previously, for Bi-2212, the slope is nearly constant in the range of
ρ ∼ 10⁻¹ -10⁻⁴μΩ cm, meaning the temperature-independent U₀. Because
Bi-2212 has a strong two-dimensional nature, the vortex-liquid region is
extended significantly to the low-temperature side. Hence, TAFF behavior
also appears in the low-temperature region where the activation energy
is nearly constant because $U_{0}\!\sim\!H_{\rm c}^{2}\xi$[3]. On the
other hand, Hg-1223 is known to be a relatively less anisotropic
material with γ≈ 30 − 50[8, 9]. Therefore, in order to describe the
resistive behavior of Hg-1223 in the TAFF region, the temperature
dependence of U₀ should be considered. A similar feature in the YBCO
compounds was reported by Zeldov _et al._[5]

In Fig. 1(b), all the experimental curves (open symbols) show a decrease
in $U_{\rm e}$ as T goes below $T_{\rm c}$ (= 131 K), followed by an
increase as the temperature continues to decrease. However, below a
certain temperature T*, indicated by the arrow, this increase becomes
very rapid. Using previously described theoretical models, we calculated
$U_{\rm e}$ and compared the result to the experiment. The solid lines
in this figure represent $U_{\rm e}$ calculated with
U₀(t, H) = U₀(0, H)(1 − t)^(N/2) suggested by Yeshurun and Malozemoff.
The dashed lines represent $U_{\rm e}$ calculated with Tinkham’s form
U₀(t, H) = U₀(0, H)(1 − t²)(1 − t⁴)^(1/2). The analyses show that the
Yeshurun-Malozemoff model with β = 3/2 is more appropriate for
describing the experimental data in the limited temperature interval
$T^{*}\!\approx\!T\!\approx\!T_{\rm ff}$. $T_{\rm ff}$ is the
temperature where flux flow freely. Thus, the deviations of the data
from the theoretical curves for $T\!\!>\!T_{\rm ff}$ are due to the fact
that the thermal energy exceeds the activation energy. Even though the
temperature range is different for each fixed magnetic field, there
surely exists a limited temperature region in which the experimental
data will match the results of the TAFF theory proposed by Yeshurun and
Malozemoff. This is different from the case of YBCO with a lower
anisotropy ratio, in which Zeldov _et al._[5] found that Tinkham’s
form[3] was valid. Based on this analysis, we could classify the
magnetoresistance behavior into three different parts: an
intermediate-temperature region which is well described by the
Yeshurun-Malozemoff model[2] (TAFF) and near $T_{\rm c}$ (FF) and
low-temperature regions (critical state) where the data depart from the
Yeshurun-Malozemoff model.

If we properly normalize $U_{\rm e}(T)$, all the curves in the TAFF
regime may converge onto one curve; we call this a scaling behavior.
This scaling behavior of the effective activation energy $U_{\rm e}$
with the scaling factor U₀(0, H) is plotted in Fig. 2. The scaling of
$U_{\rm e}$ originates from the fact that the pinning potential has the
same nature for different vortex densities and temperatures. All of the
experimental values converge onto the theoretical curve, which provides
more

Figure 1: (a) Arrhenius plots of ρ(T) are shown for various magnetic
fields parallel to c axes of the Hg-1223 thin films. Inset shows the
ρ(T) at H = 0 T, where $T_{\rm c}\!=\!131$ K. (b) The temperature
dependence of the slope of the Arrhenius curve
$U_{\rm e}\!=\!-d(\ln\rho)/d(1/T)$ is plotted with open symbols for
various fields. The solid lines are calculated by using Eq. (3) with
β = 3/2. The values of $U_{\rm e}$ in the limited temperature region
$T^{*}\!\!<\!T\!<\!T_{\rm ff}$ are well described by the theoretical
calculation (solid lines) suggested by Yeshurun and Malozemoff. The
dashed lines represent the calculation done by using Tinkham’s form. T*
and $T_{\rm ff}$ are explained in the text in detail.

confidence for the conclusion that the Yeshurun-Malozemoff model is a
reasonable one for describing the TAFF behavior for Hg-1223.

The scaling factor U₀(0, H) as a function of the external magnetic field
is plotted in Fig. 3. The value of U₀(0, H) varies systematically in H
and is proportional to H^(−α) with α = 1.1, as predicted by the
Yeshurun-Malozemoff model (where, α = 1). The predicted temperature and
field dependences of U₀ in the Yeshurun-Malozemoff model are all
confirmed in our experiment. For Bi-2212, similar experiments were
performed by Palstra _et al._[14, 1] Their values of α for ∼H^(−α), with
α ≈ 1/2 for H < 3 T and α ≈ 1/3 for H > 3 T, where H was parallel to the
c axis, are quite different from the predicted α of 1.

On the other hand, for HgBa₂CaCu₂O_(6 + δ), [10] the field and the
temperature dependences of $U_{\rm c}(T,H)$ were $U_{\rm c}(H)$∼H⁻¹ and
$U_{\rm c}H$∼(1 − T/T_(c))^(β) with β ≈ 1.1. Thus, we are able to
confirm that the behavior of the effective activation energy is
associated with the anisotropy of the material. The magnitude of the
effective activation energy for Hg-1223, as shown in Fig. 1(b), is
around 10³ K, which is between the value of 10² K for Bi-2212 and
region, the effective activation energy $U_{\rm e}(T,H)$ was obtained
and was well described by U₀(T, H) ∼ H^(α)(1 − T/T_(c))^(β) with
β = 1.5. The $U_{\rm e}(T)$ curves at different external fields scaled
onto a single universal curve with the scaling parameter α =  − 1.1.
These results are consistent with the predictions of the
Yeshurun-Malozemoff model. An abrupt increase in $U_{\rm e}$ with
decreasing temperature was observed at the lower boundary of the TAFF
region. This behavior might indicate a crossover in the vortex dynamics
from TAFF to critical behavior. Finally, from the above analyses, the
vortex phase diagram of Hg-1223 was drawn.

This work was supported by Creative Research Initiatives of the Korean
Ministry of Science and Technology.

## References

* [1] T. T. M. Palstra, B. Batlogg, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V.
Waszczak, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 1662 (1988). * [2] Y. Yeshurun and A.
P. Malozemoff, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 2202 (1988). * [3] M. Tinkham,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 1658 (1988). * [4] T. T. M. Palstra, B.
Batlogg, R. B. van Dover, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak, Phys.
Rev. B **41**, 6621 (1990). * [5] E. Zeldov, N. M. Amer, A. Gupta, M. W.
McElfresh, and R. J. Gambino, Appl. Phys. Lett. **56**, 680 (1990). *
[6] W. N. Kang, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Appl. Phys. Lett. **73**, 381
(1998). * [7] W. N. Kang, Sung-Ik Lee, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **315**,
223 (1999). * [8] C. Panagopoulos, J. R. Cooper, G. B. Peacock, I.
Gameson, P. P. Edwards, W. Schmidbauer, and J. W. Hodby, Phys. Rev. B
**53**, 2999 (1996). * [9] Y. C. Kim, J. R. Thompson, D. K. Christen, Y.
R. Sun, M. Paranthaman, and E. D. Specht, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 4438
(1995). * [10] B. W. Kang, W. N. Kang, S. H. Yun, and J. Z. Wu, Phys.
Rev. B **56**, 7862 (1997). * [11] H. Safar, P. L. Gammel, D. J. Bishop,
D. B. Mitzi, and A. Kapitulink, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2672 (1992).
