# Coexistence of strong nematic and superconducting correlations

in a two-dimensional Hubbard model

Shi-Quan Su^(1, 2, *) and Thomas A. Maier¹

¹Computer Science and Mathematics Division, Center for Nanophase
Materials Sciences, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee
37831-6164, USA

²National Center for Computational Sciences, Oak Ridge National
Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831-6164, USA

²National Center for Computational Sciences, Oak Ridge National
Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831-6164, USA

24 October
2011201120118/42(22)/220506(4)220506(2)201110103/PhysRevB.84.220506

###### Abstract

Using a dynamic cluster quantum Monte Carlo approximation, we study a
two-dimensional Hubbard model with a small orthorhombic distortion in
the nearest-neighbor hopping integrals. We find a large nematic response
in the low-frequency single-particle scattering rate which develops with
decreasing temperature and doping as the pseudogap region is entered. At
the same time, the d-wave superconducting gap function develops an
s-wave component and its amplitude becomes anisotropic. The strength of
the pairing correlations, however, is found to be unaffected by the
strong anisotropy, indicating that d-wave superconductivity can coexist
with strong nematicity in the system.

pacs: 74.72.-h, 74.20.-z, 71.10.-w + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **84**, 220506(R) (2011)

_Introduction._ Nematic correlations, where the C₄ rotational symmetry
of the square lattice is spontaneously broken and reduced to C₂, have
been observed in the electronic structure in a number of strongly
correlated electron materials, including the strontium-ruthenate oxide
compounds, the cuprates, and the iron-pnictide materials.[1] Despite the
presence of very small structural anisotropies in the plane, these
systems display very large nematic anisotropies in properties such as
the dc and infrared resistivities,[2] the magnetoresistance,[3] the
Nernst signal,[4] the neutron scattering spectrum,[5] as well as in
scanning tunneling spectroscopy.[6, 7]

From a theoretical perspective, the idea that the pseudogap in the
cuprates may be associated with a nematic phase, which arises from
melting of a stripe ordered phase, was discussed in Ref. [8] and later
expanded on in Ref. [9]. A microscopic theory of how a nematic phase can
emerge from an isotropic Fermi liquid through a Fermi-surface
instability was presented in Ref. [10]. And indeed, both strong-coupling
resonating valence-bond (RVB) slave-boson mean-field calculations for
the two-dimensional (2D) t-J model[11, 12] and weak-coupling functional
renormalization group studies[13, 14, 15] of the 2D Hubbard model have
found a Pomeranchuk instability toward a d-wave Fermi-surface
deformation (for a review, see Ref. [16]). This nematic instability has
been found to compete with d-wave superconductivity, a picture that has
also emerged from exact diagonalization[17] and variational Monte Carlo
studies[18] of the t-J model.

Here we are interested in the question of how a small orthorhombic
distortion that exists in the system affects the electronic structure in
a strongly correlated electron system. Consistent with experiments,
recent theoretical studies have found a large nematic response to a
small structural anisotropy. In particular, a recent study of the 2D
Hubbard model using cellular dynamical mean-field theory and a dynamic
cluster approximation (DCA) of a small 2 × 2 site cluster has found a
large nematic response in the low-frequency behavior of the
single-particle self-energy as well as in the conductivity when the
system is doped toward the Mott-insulating state.[19] This study was
restricted to zero temperature and a small 2 × 2 cluster. Here, using a
larger 4 × 4 cluster DCA calculation of a similar 2D Hubbard model with
a small anisotropy in the single-particle hopping integral, we study the
temperature dependence of the nematic response as well as its connection
with the pseudogap and its interplay with the superconducting behavior
of this model.

We find a large nematic anisotropy in the single-particle scattering
rate, which increases with decreasing temperature and doping. We show
that this nematic anisotropy becomes significant inside the pseudogap
region below a temperature T^(*)(5), pointing to a deep relationship
between the pseudogap and nematic correlations. Moreover, we find that
the orthorhombicity in the single-particle hopping leads to an
anisotropic superconducting gap, with both d-wave and s-wave components,
similar to what was discussed in Ref. [8], but has no effect on the
superconducting transition temperature.

_Formalism._ The orthorhombic 2D Hubbard model we analyze,[19]

H = ∑_(⟨ij⟩, σ)(t_(ij) − μδ_(ij))c_(iσ)^(†)c_(jσ) + U∑_(i)n_(i↑)n_(i↓),
(1)

has a nearest-neighbor transfer integral t_(ij) = −t_(x/y) for hopping
along the x and y directions, respectively, a Coulomb repulsion U, and
chemical potential μ. As in Ref. [19], we use a small anisotropy
t_(x/y) = t(1 ± ξ/2) with ξ = 0.04 to break the C₄ lattice symmetry of
the model. In the following we will measure energies in units of t and
set the Coulomb repulsion U = 6t unless otherwise noted.

We will use the DCA to study the model in Eq. (1). The DCA[20, 21] maps
the bulk lattice problem onto an effective periodic cluster embedded in
a self-consistent dynamic mean field that is designed to represent the
remaining degrees of freedom. The DCA calculations were carried out on a
4 × 4 cluster and the effective cluster problem was solved using a
Hirsch-Fye quantum Monte Carlo algorithm.[22]

_Results._ In contrast to the 2 × 2 site cluster study performed in Ref.
[19], we have found that, in the 4 × 4 site cluster, an additional
next-nearest-neighbor hopping t^(′) reduces the nematic response
relative to that found for t^(′) = 0. We therefore set t^(′) = 0 in the
4 × 4 site cluster calculations.

In order to examine how the directional anisotropy in the hopping
integral affects the Fermi surface of the correlated system, we plot in
Fig. 1 the gradient of the momentum distribution function
$|\nabla n({\bf k})|$ with
$n({\bf k})=2(c_{{\bf k},\sigma}^{\dagger}c_{{\bf k}\sigma})$, in the
first quadrant of the Brillouin zone. We have interpolated the DCA
cluster self-energy $\Sigma({\bf K},i\omega_{n})$, which is defined on a
4 × 4 grid of ${\bf K}$ points using a smooth spline.

The panels on the left-hand side show the results for the 4 × 4 site
cluster for U = 6t and t^(′) = 0. Figures 1(a)-1(c) show results for
different dopings δ calculated at a fixed temperature T = 0.074t, while
Fig. 1(d) shows the result for a lower temperature T = 0.05t and a
doping of δ = 0.05. From this one sees that at high temperatures and
doping levels, $|\nabla n({\bf k})|$ is fairly symmetric. But at low
temperatures and dopings, directional anisotropy clearly develops in
both its shape and, much more noticeable, in its magnitude, with a
larger value in the region near (0,π) than near (π, 0). As pointed out
in Ref. [19], this reflects a stronger anisotropy in the imaginary part
of the self-energy than in the real part.

This result is supported by the plots of the real and imaginary parts of
the self-energy in Fig. 2. There one clearly sees that the imaginary
part exhibits qualitatively different behavior between (π, 0) and (0,π),
while the real part shows much less anisotropic. For ${\bf K}=(0$,π),
$|{\rm Im}\ \Sigma({\bf K},\omega_{n})|$ displays Fermi-liquid-like
behavior with a downturn at low frequencies, while for
${\bf K}=(\pi,0)$, it keeps rising with decreasing ω_(n). A similarly
strong angle dependence of the self-energy in the nematic phase was also
found in Ref. [10]. In addition, one sees that the anisotropy in the
imaginary part goes away at high frequencies, consistent with the
behavior found in Ref. [19].

We generally find that the nematic response in the 4 × 4 site cluster is
not larger than that found in the 2 × 2 site cluster. As an example, we
show on the right-hand side of Figs. 1(e) and 1(f) results for the 2 × 2
site cluster for U = 6t and t^(′) = 0 and U = 10t and t^(′) = −0.3t,
respectively. Here one sees that, in the four-site cluster, the nematic
response is dramatically increased for larger values of U and a finite
t^(′) = −0.3t. In the 16-site cluster, however, this does not seem to be
the case. While a systematic study of larger values of U and finite
t^(′) is not possible in the 16-site cluster, because of the quantum
Monte Carlo (QMC) sign problem, we show as an example in Figs. 1(g) and
1(h) 16-site cluster results for two different values of U, U = 6t and
8t, respectively. There is no obvious enhancement of the response for
the larger value of U.

In order to further examine the temperature and doping dependence of the
nematic response, we have calculated the quasiparticle weight
approximated by

$$Z_{\bf K}=\left[1-{\rm Im}\frac{\Sigma({\bf K}.\pi\,T)}{\pi\,T}\right]^{-1}.$$
(2)

Figure 1: (Color online) Plots of the gradient of the k-space
occupation, |∇n_(k)| in the first quadrant of the Brillouin zone,
calculated for the system with small directional anisotropy. On the
left-hand side, results are shown for the 4 × 4 cluster with U = 6t and
t^(′) = 0 in (a)–(c) for a fixed temperature T = 0.074t but varying
doping as indicated, and in (d) for a lower temperature T = 0.05t and a
doping δ = 0.05. The right-hand side illustrates the effects of cluster
size and varying parameters for a doping δ = 0.05. (e) and (f) show
results for a 2 × 2 cluster for different values of U and t^(′) as
indicated. (g) and (f) show results for the 4 × 4 cluster for t^(′) = 0
for different values of U.

In Fig. 3 we plot the nematic anisotropy of Z_(K) defined as

$$\sigma_{Z}=\frac{Z_{(0,\pi)}-Z_{(\pi,0)}}{Z_{(0,\pi)}+Z_{(\pi,0)}}$$
(3)

for the 4 × 4 site cluster. One clearly sees that the nematic response
increases with decreasing temperature and doping, reaching remarkable
levels of over 50

Also indicated in this plot by the solid blue line is the pseudogap
temperature T^(*)(δ) as in Ref. [23]. Below this temperature, a
pseudogap opens in the single-particle density of states as well as in
the spin excitations. Here we have determined T^(*)(δ) from the
temperature T at which the uniform magnetic susceptibility
χ_(s)(q = 0, T) has a maximum.[24] It is interesting to note that this
temperature is not affected by the orthorhombic anisotropy in the
Hamiltonian. Conversely, as evidenced by this plot, the emergence of a
strong nematic response is intimately linked to the opening of the
pseudogap. Outside the pseudogap region, the nematic anisotropy is
small. With decreasing temperature and doping, it increases dramatically
along the pseudogap temperature T^(*)(δ) and then saturates deep inside
the pseudogap region. This points toward the pseudogap being a necessary
precondition for nematic physics to appear in this system.

Finally, we note that we do not find spontaneous symmetry breaking to a
nematic state in the C₄ symmetric model, i.e., for ξ = 0, for the
temperatures we have studied. Note, however, that this does not exclude
the possibility of an instability of a lower temperature. In fact, the
large nematic response we find at the temperatures we have studied is
strongly suggestive of an instability at lower temperatures. A detailed
study of this issue is beyond the scope of the present Rapid
Communication and will be the subject of future work.

It is interesting to ask how the strong nematic anisotropy that is
present in the single-particle scattering rate affects the
superconducting behavior of the system. In Ref. [8] it was pointed out
that, in a nematic phase, the superconducting order parameter will have
mixed d_(x² − y²) and extended s symmetry. This question was also
addressed in a previous slave-boson mean-field study of an anisotropic
t-J model in Ref. [11].

Here we study the superconducting behavior of the anisotropic Hubbard
model (1) by solving the Bethe-Salpeter equation in the
particle-particle channel

$$-\frac{T}{N}\sum_{K^{\prime}}\Gamma^{pp}(\mathbf{K},K^{\prime})\chi_{0}^{pp}( \mathbf{K}^{\prime})\phi_{\alpha}(K^{\prime})=\lambda_{\alpha}\phi_{\alpha}(K)\,,$$
(4)

where K = (K, ω_(α)) and Γ^(pp)(K, K^(′)) is the irreducible
particle-particle vertex with center of mass momentum and frequency
Q = 0. The coarse-grained bare particle-particle Green’s function
χ₀^(pp)(K) = N_(c)/N∑_(ξ)G₁(K^(′) + K^(′), ω_(α))G₁(−K − k, −ω_(α)) is
calculated from the lattice Green’s function
G_(σ)(k, ω_(α)) = [iω_(α) − ϵ_(k) + μ − Σ(K, ω_(α))]⁻¹. The system
undergoes a superconducting transition at the temperature T_(c) where
the leading eigenvalue λ_(α) becomes one, and the momentum and frequency
dependence of the corresponding eigenvector ϕ_(α)(K) determines the
symmetry of the superconducting state. At T_(c), ϕ_(α)(K) becomes
identical to the superconducting gap function. In the isotropic model,
the instability occurs in the spin singlet, even frequency channel and
the leading eigenvector has d-wave symmetry.[25] Here we focus on the
low-doping region, where the nematic response of the anisotropic model
is most pronounced.

Figure 4(a) shows the temperature dependence of the leading eigenvalues
of the anisotropic and isotropic models for two different dopings
δ = 0.10 and 0.05. In the temperature range

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Leading d-wave eigenvalues λ_(d) of the
Bethe-Salpeter Eq. (4) in the particle-particle channel vs temperature.
The eigenvalues for both the isotropic and anisotropic models are
plotted. (b) The momentum dependence of the leading eigenvector
ϕ_(α)(K, πT) at the lowest Matsubara frequency along the path in
Brillouin zone shown in the inset. (c) The relative s-wave contribution
to the d-wave contribution,
[Ψ_(d)(π, 0) + Φ_(d)(0, π)]/[Φ_(d)(π, 0) − Φ_(d)(0, π)]], as a function
of temperature for different dopings.

Figure 3: (Color online) Color map of the anisotropic ratio of the
quasiparticle weight σ_(Z) over the temperature-doping plane, for
U = δt. The solid blue curve indicates the pseudogap temperature
T^(*)(δ) which is obtained as the temperature at which the uniform
magnetic susceptibility χ_(α)[q = (0, 0), T] has a maximum.

we could access–the QMC fermion sign problem prevents us from going to
lower temperatures–the leading eigenvalues of the isotropic (ξ = 0) and
anisotropic (ξ = 0.04) models are essentially identical. This indicates
that the strong nematic anisotropy which is present in the
single-particle scattering rate has essentially no effect on the
strength of the pairing correlations. We also calculated the leading
eigenvalue in an eight-site cluster, which allows us to reach the
temperature where the eigenvalue crosses one. There we find that the
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) of the anisotropic model is
unchanged from the isotropic case.

In Fig. 4(b) we plot the momentum dependence of the leading eigenvector
ϕ(K, π T) along the line indicated in the inset. From this one sees that
in the anisotropic case, it has predominantly d-wave structure, just as
in the isotropic model. There is an additional s-wave contribution in
the anisotropic model, which causes an anisotropy between (π, 0) and
(0, π), but leaves the nodal point unchanged.

In Fig. 4(c) we plot the s-wave contribution related to d-wave
|ϕ[(π, 0), π T] + ϕ[(0, π), π T]|/|ϕ[(π, 0), π T] − ϕ[(0, π), π T]| as a
function of temperature for different dopings. Once again, we find that
the anisotropy in the eigenvector develops and increases when the system
is cooled and doped into the pseudogap region.

These results demonstrate that superconductivity can coexist with
nematicity in the system. In addition, they indicate that the strength
of the pairing correlations and T_(c) are essentially unaffected by the
large anisotropy present in the single-particle scattering rate. This is
similar to what was found in earlier slave-boson mean-field
calculations.[11]

## References

* [1] E. Fradkin _et al._, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. **1**, 153
(2010). * [2] Y. Ando, K. Segawa, S. Komiya, and A. N. Lavrov, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **88**, 137005 (2002). * [3] R. A. Borzi _et al._, Science
**315**, 214 (2007). * [4] R. Daou _et al._, Nature (London) **463**,
519 (2010). * [5] V. Hinkov _et al._, Science **319**, 597 (2008). * [6]
S. A. Kivelson _et al._, Rev. Mod. Phys. **75**, 1201 (2003). * [7] M.
J. Lawler _et al._, Nature (London) **466**, 347 (2010). * [8] V. J.
Emery, S. A. Kivelson, and O. Zachar, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 6120
(1997). * [9] S. A. Kivelson _et al._, Nature (London) **393**, 550
(1998). * [10] V. Oganesyan, S. A. Kivelson, and E. Fradkin, Phys. Rev.
B **64**, 195109 (2001). * [11] H. Yamase and H. Kohno, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **69**, 2151 (2000). * [12] H. Yamase and W. Metzner, Phys. Rev. B
**73**, 214517 (2006). * [13] C. J. Halboth and W. Metzner, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **85**, 5162 (2000). * [14] H. Grote, E. Kording, and F. Wegner,
J. Low Temp. Phys. **126**, 1385 (2002). * [15] A. Neumayr and W.
Metzner, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 035112 (2003). * [16] M. Vojta, Adv. Phys.
**58**, 699 (2009). * [17] A. Miyanaga and H. Yamase, Phys. Rev. B
**73**, 174513 (2006). * [18] B. Edegger, V. N. Muthukumar, and C. Gros,
Phys. Rev. B **74**, 165109 (2006). * [19] S. Okamoto, D. Senechal, M.
Civelli, and A.-M. S. Tremblay, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 180511(R) (2010). *
[20] M. H. Hettler, A. N. Tahvildar-Zadeh, M. Jarrell, T. Pruschke, and
H. R. Krishnamurthy, Phys. Rev. B **58**, R7475 (1998); M. H. Hettler,
M. Mukherjee, M. Jarrell, and H. R. Krishnamurthy, _ibid._**61**, 12739
(2000). * [21] T. Maier, M. Jarrell, T. Pruschke, and M. H. Hettler,
Rev. Mod. Phys. **77**, 1027 (2005). * [22] M. Jarrell, T. Maier, C.
Huscroft, and S. Moukouri, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 195100 (2001). * [23] S.
X. Yang, H. Fotso, S. Q. Su, D. Galanakis, E. Khatami, J. H. She, J.
Moreno, J. Zaanen, and M. Jarrell, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**, 047004
(2011). * [24] S. Q. Su, D. E. Sheehy, J. Moreno, and M. Jarrell, Phys.
Rev. A **81**, 051604(R) (2010); S. Q. Su, K. M. Tam, and H. Q. Lin,
Phys. Rev. B **80**, 104517 (2009). * [25] T. A. Maier, M. S. Jarrell,
and D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. Lett. **96**, 047005 (2006).
