Anisotropic Hall mobility in slightly overdoped YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92) from
magnetoresistance and Hall-coefficient measurements

I. Terasaki, Y. Sato, and S. Tajima

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, International Superconductivity
Technology Center, 1-10-13 Shinomone, Koto-ku, Tokyo 135, Japan

16 December 1996

###### Abstract

Hall mobilities of slightly overdoped YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92) crystals were
evaluated from the measurements of the in-plane magnetoresistance (MR)
and the Hall effects. While MR for H∥c is consistently understood in
terms of the in-plane Hall mobility, MR for H∥ab has shown no detectable
orbital contribution, which strongly suggests that the Hall mobility
involving the c-axis hopping is seriously suppressed. The Hall
conductivities are found to be also highly anisotropic, and the
anisotropy becomes larger with decreasing temperature, as is similar to
the anisotropy of the dc resistivity. [S0163-1829(97)03622-9]

As is widely accepted, the temperature (T) dependence of transport
parameters represented by resistivity is a hallmark of high-temperature
superconducting cuprates[1] (HTSC’s), which is rarely seen in
conventional metals or layered superconductors like Sr₂RuO₄ (Ref. 2) or
organic BEDT salts.[3] This naturally implies that scattering time (τ)
characterizes their unusual electronic states, and a large number of
studies have been devoted to understanding τ or the charge dynamics.[4]
We have proposed that the electronic states are two-dimensional (2D)
even in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92)–the least anisotropic HTSC–and that the 2D
nature is mainly determined by τ, not by effective mass (m*).[5, 6] The
c-axis conduction then proved to be incoherent, i.e., the c-axis mean
free path is shorter than the c-axis lattice parameter. Although this
may be often observed in layered materials, the incoherent nature of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92) is quite unique, which leaves the c-axis resistivity
(ρ_(c)) metallic.

An important concept about τ is the possible existence of two kinds of
in-plane τ, i.e., $\tau_{\rm tr}$ (∝T⁻¹) and τ_(H) (∝T⁻²), which give
the different T dependence of the resistivity (ρ_(ab)) and Hall
coefficient (R_(ab)^(H)) along the ab plane.[7] Even though their
microscopic origin is still an open question, it has been experimentally
established that $\tau_{\rm tr}$ and τ_(H) successfully explain the T
dependence of ρ_(ab) and R_(ab)^(H) for almost all HTSC’s.[8] Recently
Harris _et al.[9]_ have found that the in-plane normal-state
magnetoresistance (MR) for magnetic field parallel to the c axis (H∥c)
is understood as classical MR characterized by τ_(H). This can be
further evidence for the coexistence of τ_(ab) and τ_(H); however, their
interpretation is seriously incompatible with the previous explanation
of MR in terms of superconducting fluctuation (SF).[10, 11] The best way
to see which is more plausible is to study MR of samples with less SF
such as overdoped HTSC’s.

In this study we measured and analyzed in-plane normal-state MR of
slightly overdoped YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92) crystals for three orientations of H,
together with their anisotropic Hall coefficients. The purpose of the
present study is twofold. One is to address the question whether MR for
H∥c of HTSC’s arises from classical MR or from SF. As was reported in a
previous paper,[5] our single crystals of YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) are slightly
overdoped when highly oxygenated. Consequently SF-induced MR will be
much reduced in our samples than in Refs. 9-11. The other purpose is to
study the anisotropy of Hall mobility and/or Hall conductivity. The
concept of $\tau_{\rm tr}$ and τ_(H) suggests that resistivity and Hall
mobility probe different scattering processes. In this conjecture the
anisotropy of Hall mobility should be studied in addition to the
anisotropy of dc resistivity. Here we evaluate the anisotropy of the
Hall mobility (μ^(H)) from MR and Hall coefficient measurements.

Single-crystal samples of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92) prepared by a crystal-pulling
technique[12] are the same as were used in Ref. 5. Samples were cut from
an as-grown crystal with a typical dimension of 4×4×2 mm³, and were
annealed in oxygen flow at 400 ^(∘)C for 10 days. All the quantities
presented here were measured using the samples from the same crystal.
They are slightly overdoped with T_(c) of 90 K and low ρ_(ab) of 30 μΩ
cm at 100 K. Magnetoresistance was measured in sweeping magnetic field
(H) up to 8 T with current (I) parallel to the ab plane, by employing an
ac-bridge-type nano-ohmmeter (Linear-Research LR201) with a typical
uncertainty of 20-50 ppm. Temperature was stabilized within ±5 mK during
sweeping H using a cernox resistance thermometer.

The magnetoresistance for H∥c is found to be roughly proportional to H²,
as shown in Fig. 1. Because of the slightly overdoped nature, ρ_(ab) of
our sample is about half of that in the optimally doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) ,
and consequently the SF-induced MR
$\Delta\rho_{\rm SF}$∼$\Delta\sigma_{\rm SF}$/σ_(ab)²∼ρ_(ab)${}^{2}\Delta\sigma_{\rm SF}$
is expected to be at most 25

Under the lowest approximation, classical MR in metals is roughly equal
to (ω_(c)τ)², where ω_(c) and τ are cyclotron frequency and cyclotron
scattering time ( = τ_(H)), respectively. ω_(c)τ can be expressed by ρ
and R^(H) as

$$\frac{\Delta\rho}{\rho}\sim(\omega_{c}\tau)^{2}=(H\mu^{H})^{2}=\left(\frac{HR^ {H}}{\rho}\right)^{2}.$$
(1)

If R^(H) is independent of temperature, as in the case of conventional
metals, Eq. (1) reduces to Kohler’s rule of Δρ/ρ ∝ (H/ρ)². In HTSC’s,
however, R^(H) depends on temperature, which no longer allows us to
regard R^(H) as constant in Eq. (1). Harris _et al._[9] claimed the
violation of Kohler’s rule in HTSC’s from the fact that MR does not
scale with (H/ρ)², but we think that they should have employed the
original relation given by Eq. (1) instead of (H/ρ)².

Equation (1) tells us two ways to evaluate in-plane ω_(c)τ, i.e.,
(Δρ_(ab)/ρ_(ab))^(0.5) and HR_(ab)^(H)/ρ_(ab). To see the consistency
between these two, we plotted 1/(Δρ_(ab)/ρ_(ab))^(0.5) and
ρ_(ab)/HR_(ab)^(H) for H=8 T as a function of T² in Fig. 2. Except for
the data near T_(c) where SF is significant, the two sets of data show
identical T dependence (1/ω_(c)τ^(∞)T² + C). Although this scaling is
the same as Harris _et al._ did in Ref. 9, our interpretation is
different from theirs. It does not necessarily mean the violation of
Kohler’s rule, but means that the in-plane MR for H∥c is well understood
by a "generalized" Kohler’s rule described by Eq. (1). In other words,
the in-plane MR is determined by the in-plane μ^(H). We comment here on
the different magnitudes between 1/(Δρ_(ab)/ρ_(ab))^(0.5) and
ρ_(ab)/HR_(ab)^(H). In the Boltzmann theory, τ is averaged around the
Fermi surface in different manners between Hall conductivity and MR.[15]
In the language of statistics, Hall conductivity and classical MR
correspond to the median and variance of local Hall mobility μ^(H)(k),
respectively.[9] Accordingly the present data suggest that the magnitude
of μ^(H)(k) might more or less vary in k space.

Next we discuss μ^(H) involving the c-axis hopping. Figure 3 shows
transverse (H⊥I) and longitudinal (H∥I) MR for H∥ab. The longitudinal MR
above 92 K is not shown, because it was too small to be detected. As
shown in the data of 92 K,[16] the transverse MR is nearly equal to the
longitudinal MR within experimental accuracy. This indicates that the
orbital contribution, including classical MR and SF, is negligibly small
for H∥ab, and also that μ^(H) involving the c-axis hopping is quite
small.

In spite of the relatively small m_(c)^(*) of slightly overdoped
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92), the Hall mobility for H∥ab in Fig. 3 is unusually
small. From the effective-mass anisotropy m_(c)^(*)/m_(ab)^(*) (∼ 7)
evaluated from the Drude weights of the optical conductivity,[6] MR for
H∥ab is expected to be as large as 14

Another way to evaluate the anisotropy of μ^(H) is to analyze the
anisotropy of the Hall conductivity σ_(xyz)  ∼  R_(xy)^(H)/ρ_(xx)ρ_(yy)
where I∥x and H∥z. It should be emphasized that σ_(xyz) is a more
fundamental quantity than R_(xy)^(H) in the sense that the Boltzmann
theory and the Kubo formula give a direct expression for σ_(xyz). The
c-axis Hall coefficient R_(c)^(H) (Ref. 21) for various HTSC’s has been
measured and

Figure 3: Magnetic field (H) dependence of the magnetoresistance of
single-crystal YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92) plotted as a function of H². The current
and magnetic field are applied along the ab plane.

Figure 2: Temperature (T) dependence of the in-plane ω_(c)τ plotted as a
function of T². Note that 1/ω_(c)τ is evaluated in two ways,
1/(Δρ_(ab)/ρ_(ab))^(0.5) and ρ_(ab)/HR_(ab)^(H) (see text).

analyzed,[5, 22] and R_(c)^(H) is found to be nearly independent of T.
Although the T independence has attracted attention before, a more
important fact is that the T independent R_(c)^(H) is observed together
with the unusual T dependence of ρ_(c). In other words, the Hall
conductivity cancels the unusual T dependence of ρ_(c) to make
R_(c)^(H)T independent. This implies that the Hall conductivity
involving the c-axis hopping includes semiconducting nature as ρ_(c)
does.

Figure 4(a) shows the anisotropic Hall conductivities σ_(abc) and
σ_(bca), calculated from the measured ρ_(ab) , ρ_(c) , R_(ab)^(H), and
R_(c)^(H)σ_(abc) and σ_(bca) show a remarkable anisotropy strongly
depending on temperature. In the Boltzmann theory, since σ_(xyz) is
roughly proportional to μ_(x)^(H)μ_(y)^(H), σ_(abc)/|σ_(bca)| reduces to
the anisotropy of μ^(H). Hence σ_(abc)/|σ_(bca)|∼80 at 100 K means that
μ^(H) involving the c-axis hopping is 2 orders of magnitude smaller than
the in-plane μ^(H). This is well consistent with the very small MR for
H∥ab.

In Fig. 4(b), σ_(abc)/|σ_(bca)| and σ_(ab)/σ_(c) (=ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab)) are
plotted as a function of temperature, respectively they show a similar T
dependence. By definition, σ_(abc)/|σ_(bca)| can be rewritten as

$$\frac{\sigma_{abc}}{|\sigma_{bca}|}\sim\frac{R_{ab}^{H}/(\rho_{ab})^{2}}{|R_{c }^{H}|/\rho_{ab}\rho_{c}}=\frac{R_{ab}^{H}}{|R_{c}^{H}|}\frac{\rho_{c}}{\rho_{ ab}},$$
(2)

which means that σ_(abc)/|σ_(bca)| increases with decreasing T as
ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) [The temperature dependence of R_(ab)^(H)/|R_(c)^(H)| is
relatively weak. See the inset of Fig. 4(a).] We therefore conclude that
_the Hall conductivity becomes more anisotropic with decreasing
temperature, as is similar to the dc resistivity_. If the larger
ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) at lower T can be regarded as a piece of evidence for the
carrier confinement, we can say that the motion of carriers induced by
the Lorentz force feels the confinement in a similar way.

Finally we point out two possible scenarios about the T dependence of
σ_(bca). One is that the concept of τ_(u) and τ_(H) is broken down in
the c-axis hopping process. Instead, τ_(ab)( = τ_(u)) and τ_(c) are
defined in the c-axis hopping, where σ_(bca)∝τ_(ab)τ_(c) and
R_(c)^(H)∼const. This scenario is based on the assumption that only τ is
anomalous in the c-axis transport.[5] Hussey _et al.[19]_ have also
claimed τ_(u)=τ_(H) in the c-axis hopping from the anisotropic MR in
overdoped TlBa₂CuO₆. The other scenario is that σ_(bca) is characterized
by another scattering time or by a different process, which makes
R_(c)^(H) accidentally T independent. Recently Nagaosa[23] has
calculated σ_(bca) in the framework of the t-J model, where σ_(bca) ,
unlike ρ_(c) , cannot be expressed by simple electron operators, but
consists of spinon and holon parts.

In summary, we have measured and analyzed the anisotropy of in-plane
magnetoresistance and the Hall effect in slightly overdoped
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92) crystals. The in-plane magnetoresistance above 100 K is
mainly due to classical magnetoresistance, and is well understood in
terms of the in-plane Hall mobility. Furthermore, we have evaluated the
anisotropy of Hall mobility and Hall conductivity between the in-plane
and out-of-plane directions. The anisotropy of the Hall mobility is
larger than the effective-mass anisotropy, and strongly depends on
temperature, just like the anisotropy of resistivity. This is further
evidence for anomalously short scattering time in the out-of-plane
direction.

We would like to thank Y. Yamada and Y. Shiohara for technical help on
the crystal growth by the crystal-pulling technique. We also appreciate
H. Takagi, K. Kimura, K. Semba, and N. Nagaosa for fruitful discussions.
This work was partially supported by NEDO for R&D of Industrial Science
and Technology Frontier Program.

## References

* [1] P. W. Anderson, Science **256**, 1526 (1992). * [2] Y. Maeno _et
al._, Nature **372**, 532 (1994); T. Katsufuji, M. Kasai, and Y. Tokura,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 126 (1996). * [3] M. Dressel _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **50**, 13 603 (1994), and references therein. * [4] For a recent
review of the anisotropic charge dynamics, see S. L. Cooper and K. E.
Gray, in _Physical Properties of the High Temperature Superconductors
IV_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1994), p.
61. * [5] I. Terasaki _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 16 246 (1995);
Physica C **235-240**, 1413 (1994). * [6] J. Schutzmann _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **73**, 174 (1994); S. Tajima, Ferroelectrics **177**, 95
(1996); S. Tajima _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 6051 (1997). * [7] T.
R. Chien, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2088
(1991). * [8] For example, see J. M. Harris _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 3246 (1994), and references therein. * [9] J. M. Harris _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**, 1391 (1995). * [10] Y. Matsuda _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **40**, 5176 (1989); Solid State Commun. **68**, 103
(1988).

Figure 4: (a) The Hall conductivities, σ_(abc) (H∥c) and σ_(bca) (H∥ab),
of single-crystal YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92). The inset shows the anisotropic Hall
coefficients (from Ref. [5]). (b) Temperature dependence of the
anisotropy of the Hall conductivity (open circles) and that of the
resistivity (closed circles) for single-crystal YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.92).

* [11] K. Semba, T. Ishii, and A. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 769
(1991); **67**, 2114(E) (1991). * [12] Y. Yamada and Y. Shiohara,
Physica C **217**, 182 (1993). * [13] S.-K. Yip, Phys. Rev. B **41**,
2612 (1990). * [14] T. Kimura _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8733
(1996). * [15] A. B. Pippard, _Magnetoresistance in Metals_ (Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, England, 1989). * [16] The observed
positive MR at 92 K is believed to come from the Zeeman effect on
SF-induced MR. See A. G. Aronov, S. Hikami, and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **62**, 965 (1989); **62**, 2336(E) (1989). * [17] An ellipsoidal
Fermi surface described by
$\varepsilon(k)\!=\!\frac{1}{2}h^{2}\Gamma((k_{a}^{2}\!+\!k_{b}^{2})/m_{ab}^{ \ast}\!+\!k_{c}^{2}/m_{c}^{\ast}\!)$
gives the cyclotron masses along the ab and c directions as m_(ab)^(*)
and $\sqrt{m_{ab}^{\ast}m_{c}^{\ast}}$, respectively, as is often used
in the cyclotron resonance in semiconductors. * [18] I. Terasaki, Y.
Sato, and S. Tajimaj, _Proceedings of the 10th Anniversary HTS Workshop
on Physics, Materials and Applications, March 12-16, 1996, Houston_,
edited by B. Batlogg, C. W. Chu, W. K. Chu, D. U. Gubster, and K. A.
Muller (World Scientific, Singapore, 1996), p. 296. * [19] N. E. Hussey
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 122 (1995). * [20] M. S. Osofsky _et
al._, Physica C **182**, 257 (1991). * [21]R_(c)^(H) was measured in the
configurations of I|ab, H|ab, and H⊥I. * [22] L. Forro _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **42**, 8704 (1990); J. M. Harris, Y. F. Yan, and N. P. Ong,
_ibid._**46**, 14 293 (1992); K. Tamasaku _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**72**, 3088 (1994). * [23] N. Nagaosa, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 10 561
(1995).
