# Observation of superconductivity in thick amorphous Mg_(x)B_(1 − x)
films

S. Okuma, S. Togo, and K. Amemori

Research Center for Low Temperature Physics, Tokyo Institute of
Technology, 2-12-1, Ohokayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152-8551, Japan

Received 23 October 2002; published 23 May 2003

###### Abstract

We report the observation of superconductivity in homogeneously
disordered thick films of amorphous Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) with x = 0.29−0.39.
We find that the superconducting-transition temperature T_(c) changes
smoothly as a function of x, exhibiting a peak (T_(c) ≈ 6.1 K) at x ≈
0.33 (=x_(p)). Seven films studied in this work are classified into two
groups. For films with x < x_(p) the slope of the critical field B₀(T)
where the dc resistivity vanishes is larger than that for films with x ≈
x_(p), indicating that there is a difference in the electronic and/or
vortex states between the two groups.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.67.172508 [ ]

Since the discovery of superconductivity in MgB₂ at about 39 K,[1] much
effort has been devoted to fabricating high-quality crystals. To date,
films with a highly c-axis-oriented crystal structure,[2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
as well as bulk single crystals,[8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14] have been
fabricated. These samples are considered to be sufficiently clean,
having the low resistivity in the normal state at 40 K (ρ_(n)∼ 0.1-10 μΩ
cm). However, the superconducting properties, as well as the values of
ρ_(n), are dependent on preparation methods. The
superconducting-transition temperature T_(c) for the crystal samples
stays close to 39 K, while somewhat lower values of T_(c) (∼ 22−39 K)
have been reported for the film samples.[15, 16] The upper critical
field B_(c2)(0) in the limit of zero temperature (T→0) ranges from ∼ 4 T
for single crystals, where the field is applied perpendicular to the Mg
and B planes, to 15 T for wires and polycrystallines. On the basis of
data of dc resistivity and magnetic measurements, the possible vortex
phase diagram in the field-temperature (B-T) plane has been actively
discussed. One of the most striking features is the extremely broad
"vortex-liquid phase" which grows progressively with decreasing
temperature.

Compared with clean samples, very little has been studied about the
dirty samples.[16, 17, 18] It is interesting to study amorphous
(a-)Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) films where disorder is microscopic and extremely
strong. Of course it is not evident whether we can fabricate
a-Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) films, and even if we can fabricate them, it is not
clear whether they exhibit superconductivity. To date, several amorphous
alloy films are known to exhibit superconductivity.[19, 20, 21, 22] For
instance, in molybdenum-base a-Mo_(x)Ge_(1 − x) (Ref. [20]) and
a-Mo_(x)Si_(1 − x) films, T_(c) is varied as a function of x. Mo is
itself a superconductor with a bulk T_(c) of 0.9 K, while T_(c)’s of
these amorphous alloy films are much higher than 1 K for moderate Mo
concentration x: e.g., T_(c) of the 100-nm-thick a-Mo_(x)Si_(1 − x)
films reaches 7 K for x = 0.7.[19]

In this paper we report the observation of superconductivity in thick
a-Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) films with varying x. The a-MgB₂ films which exhibit
superconductivity have been already reported by Kus _et al.[16]_
However, the preparation method and superconducting properties are very
different from those in the present study, suggesting that the
microscopic or mesoscopic structure of the films is also different. The
films reported on in Ref. [16] were deposited on flexible plastic
substrates and subsequently heated to approximately 600 ^(∘)C. The onset
temperature of the superconducting transition was about 29 K, which is
much higher than the T_(c) values of our films. We find that the
superconducting properties, T_(c) and B_(c2), for our films are similar
to those for conventional amorphous alloy films, such as thick (100 nm)
a-Mo_(x)Si_(1 − x) films.[23, 24] The T_(c) changes systematically and
smoothly as a function of x, exhibiting a peak (T_(c) ≈ 6.1 K) at x ≈
0.33 (=x_(p)). Seven films studied in this work are classified into two
groups. For films with x < x_(p) the slope of the critical field B₀(T)
where the dc resistivity vanishes is larger than that for films with x
≫x_(p). The "vortex-liquid phase" is even narrower than that reported
for clean MgB₂ samples but somewhat broader than that for thick
a-Mo_(x)Si_(1 − x) films.[23, 24] The preliminary results, the
preparation method, and characterization of the a-Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) films
are presented elsewhere.[25]

The films were prepared by coevaporation of pure Mg (99.9

We have taken a transmission-electron micrograph (TEM) and an
electron-diffraction pattern of the 10-nm-thick Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) films
with x = 0.4 and 0.3. In either film we do not observe any sign of
granular structure down to about 1 nm. Typically shown in Fig. 1 is the
TEM image of the 10-nm thick Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) film with x = 0.3 deposited
on a thin a-C film at room temperature. The very small structure (<1 nm)
that is visible in Fig. 1 is most likely attributed to that of a-C. We
thus consider that a-Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) films can be fabricated at room
temperature by coevaporation of Mg and B at least within the x range
studied. [27]

The normal-state resistivity ρ_(n) at 10 K shows a trend to increase as
x decreases, ρ_(n) ∼  4× 10²μΩ cm for film 1 (x = 0.39) and 7.4× 10²μΩ
cm for film 7 (x = 0.29), as is similar to the case with
a-Mo_(x)Si_(1 − x) films. [22] We notice, however, that ρ_(n) for films
1−4 stays almost constant within our experimental resolutions. The
reason is not clear, but it may be partly attributed to ambiguity in
determining ρ_(n) mentioned above. As is shown below, T_(c) , which is
not dependent on the sample size, exhibits a systematic change against
x, indicating that electronic states for films 1−7 indeed change as a
function of x.

Typically shown in Fig. 2 is the temperature dependence of the
resistivity ρ(T) for film 3 in different magnetic fields.

Upon cooling from room temperature, ρ(T) in B = 0 stays almost constant
or increases very slowly without showing any sign of superconductivity
at T ∼ 39 K. With further decreasing T, ρ(T) exhibits a sudden decrease
at around 5 K and falls to zero at 4.4 K. The superconducting-transition
(zero-resistivity) temperature T_(c) = 4.4 K is much lower than
T_(c) = 39 K for MgB₂ crystals. Here, we define the onset temperature
T_(on) as a temperature at which ρ decreases to 90

One may question that the variation in T_(c) observed among films 1−7
may imply the occurrence of superconductivity in different
stoichiometric phases of the Mg-B system, such as MgB₄ (x = 0.20) and
MgB₆ (x = 0.14) or other unknown Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) compounds.[15] However,
the following facts suggest that such a possibility is weak: (i) The
range of x (=0.29−0.39) studied in this work is narrow, (ii) the
resistive transition ρ(T) is smooth and relatively sharp except for film
1, and (iii) the variation of T_(c) with x is smooth, which would not be
expected if our film was composed of more than two phases with different
T_(c) . The shape of the transition curve ρ(T) for film 1 looks broader,
though smooth, as compared to ρ(T) for the rest of six films 2−7. We
consider that part of the reason is due to T_(c) variation within the
sample resulting from a gradient of x, since dT_(c)/dx is largest for
film 1 (Fig. 4). The results obtained here are different from what has
been reported for polycrystalline Mg_(1 − x)B₂ samples with 0 ≈ x ≈ 0.15
in which percolative superconductivity is observed.[18]

Let us consider the possible phase diagram in the mixed state. We
present the characteristic fields vs T for the selected films 2, 3, and
5 [Fig. 5(a)] and films 6 and 7 [Fig. 5(b)] extracted from the ρ(T) data
in various B on the basis of different criteria: onset B_(0.9) (open
symbols) and completion B₀ (full symbols). Here, B_(0.9) and B₀,
respectively, represent the points where ρ decreases to 90

In Fig. 6 we plot B₀(0) for films 2−7 against T_(c) , where B₀(0) is
obtained by extrapolating B₀(T) to T = 0. For film 1, B_(c2)(0) is
plotted instead of B₀(0), since B₀(0) is not determined unambiguously
within the T range measured. All the films studied in this work are
classified into two groups; films 1−5 with x ≥ x_(p) and films 6 and 7
with x < x_(p) . In either group B₀(0) roughly follows the linear
relation, B₀(0) = aT_(c) , where a = 0.47 and 0.80 T/K for films with
x ≥ x_(p) and x < x_(p) , respectively. More precisely, film 5 may be
located in the intermediate regime between two groups. The results
presented here indicate that there is a difference in the electronic
and/or vortex states between the two groups. The superconducting
properties for films 6 and 7 with x < x_(p) are most likely dominated by
localization effects caused by reduction of carrier concentration x.[22,
26, 28] Although the physical mechanism responsible for
superconductivity in a-Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) films is still unknown, we hope
the present results will provide some useful information in preparing
high-quality MgB₂ films and in understanding the mechanism of
superconductivity in amorphous alloy films.

As pointed out earlier, there is big difference between the values of
T_(c) ( ≈ 6.1 K) obtained in the present work for

Figure 5: Characteristic fields vs T for (a) films 2, 3, and 5 and (b)
films 6 and 7: onset B_(0.9) (open symbols) and vanishing resistivity B₀
(full symbols). Here B_(0.9) and B₀, respectively, represent the points
where ρ decreases to 90

Figure 6: B₀(0) (filled circles) for films 2−7 plotted against T_(c) .
For film 1, B_(c2)(0) (open circle) is plotted instead of B₀(0). The
straight lines represent linear fits.

a-Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) films and the value of T_(c)≈ 29 K reported in Ref.
[16] for a-MgB₂ films. The higher T_(c) reported in a-MgB₂ films,
together with the fact that the bulk of the a-MgB₂ films exhibits a
fully stoichiometric composition of Mg and B, may be due to
postannealing at temperatures higher than 600 ^(∘)C. [16] We assume that
the annealing process may lead to formation of crystallinelike grains
with higher T_(c) (≫ 6 K), which may not be detected experimentally.
Actually, it has been reported by Kus and co-workers that the
superconducting properties depend strongly on the conditions of
annealing and that the granular nature has been suggested by the
critical current density. [16]

Finally, we comment on the "vortex-liquid phase." We have commonly
observed that the B_(c2)(T) line in the B-T phase diagram runs nearly
parallel to the B₀(T) line except near T_(c) down to the lowest T
measured. The similar feature is observed for thick a-Mo_(x)Si_(1 − x)
films with various x. [23, 24, 28] The behavior observed for
a-Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) and a-Mo_(x)Si_(1 − x) films is markedly different
from what has been reported for MgB₂ single crystals and dense
polycrystalline wires, where the width of the vortex-liquid phase ΔB(T),
as defined as ΔB(T) = B_(c2)(T) = B_(c2)(T) - B₀(T), grows remarkably
upon cooling.

To summarize, we report the observation of superconductivity in
a-Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) films with x = 0.29− 0.39. We find that T_(c) changes
smoothly as a function of x, exhibiting a peak (T_(c)≈ 6.1 K) at
x_(p)≈0.33. Seven films studied in this work are classified into two
groups. For films with x<x_(p) the slope of the B₀(T) line is larger
than that for films with x≫x_(p), indicating that there is a difference
in the electronic and/or vortex states between the two groups. The
preliminary measurements of the ac complex resistivity [23, 29] for the
present a-Mg_(x)B_(1 − x) films suggest the existence of the
vortex-glass transition [30] at around B₀.

We thank A. Genseki and M. Morita for technical assistance. This
research was supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research from
the Ministry of Education, Science, Sports, and Culture.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu _et al._, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2]
H. H. Wen _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 134505 (2001). * [3] W. Jo _et
al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **80**, 3563 (2002). * [4] W. N. Kang _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **65**, 134508 (2002). * [5] Hyeong-Jim Kim _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **87**, 087002 (2001). * [6] Z. W. Zhao _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **65**, 064512 (2002). * [7] S. K. Gupta _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**66**, 104525 (2002). * [8] S. Lee _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**,
2255 (2001). * [9] Yu. Eltsev _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 140501
(2001). * [10] A. K. Pradhan _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 212509
(2001). * [11] Kijoon H. P. Kim _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 100510
(2002). * [12] F. Manzano _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 047002
(2002). * [13] M. Zehetmayer _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 052505
(2002). * [14] Y. Machida, S. Sasaki, H. Fujii, M. Furuyama, I. Kakeya,
and K. Kadowaki, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 094507 (2003). * [15] S. R. Shinde
_et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **79**, 227 (2001). * [16] Peter Kus _et
al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **81**, 2199 (2002). * [17] S. R. Shinde, S. B.
Ogale, A. Biswas, R. L. Greene, and T. Venkatesan, cond-mat/0110541
(unpublished). * [18] P. A. Sharma _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**,
167003 (2002). * [19] W. L. Johnson, C. C. Tsuei, S. I. Raider, and R.
B. Laibowitz, J. Appl. Phys. **50**, 4240 (1979). * [20] J. M. Graybeal
and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **29**, 4167 (1984). * [21] N. Nishida
_et al._, Solid-State Electron. **28**, 81 (1985). * [22] S. Okuma, T.
Terashima, and N. Kokubo, Solid State Commun. **106**, 529 (1998); Phys.
Rev. B **58**, 2816 (1998). * [23] S. Okuma, Y. Imamoto, and M. Morita,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 3136 (2001). * [24] S. Okuma, M. Morita, and Y.
Imamoto, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 104506 (2002). * [25] S. Okuma, S. Togo,
D. Sanno, K. Amemori, and M. Morita, in _Proceedings of the 2002
International Conference on Physics and Chemistry of Molecular and Oxide
Superconductors, 2002, Hsinchu_, edited by C. C. Chi and M. K. Wu
(Kluwer Academic/ Plenum, Belgium, 2003) [J. Low Temp. Phys. **131**,
1111 (2003)]. * [26] S. Okuma, S. Shinozaki, and M. Morita, Phys. Rev. B
**63**, 054523 (2001). * [27] We do not definitely rule out the
possibility of the presence of microcrystals in the 290-nm-thick films
studied in this work, since we cannot perform TEM observation for the
thick films due to a technical reason (Ref. [25]). * [28] S. Okuma, S.
Togo, Yamamoto, and F. Saito, Physica C **378-381**, 453 (2002); S.
Okuma, S. Togo, and M. Morita (unpublished). * [29] S. Okuma and N.
Kokubo, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 14 138 (1997); S. Okuma and M. Arai, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 2747 (2000). * [30] D. S. Fisher, M. P. A.
Fisher, and D. A. Huse, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 130 (1991).
