Dimensionality of superconductivity and vortex dynamics in the
infinite-layer cuprate Sr0.9M0.CuO_2 (_M_ = La,Gd)

V. S. Zapf,^(1, 2) N.-C. Yeh,¹ A. D. Beyer,¹ C. R. Hughes,¹ C. H.
Mielke,² N. Harrison,² M. S. Park,³ K. H. Kim,³ S.-I. Lee³

¹Department of Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California, USA

²National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545,
USA

³Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang, Korea

21 April 2004; revised manuscript received 9 December 2004; published 29
April 2005

###### Abstract

The high magnetic-field phase diagram of the electron-doped infinite
layer high-temperature superconducting (high-T_(c)) compound
Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 was probed by means of penetration depth and
magnetization measurements in pulsed fields to 60 T. An anisotropy ratio
of 8 was detected for the upper critical fields with H parallel
(H_(z2)^(ab)) and perpendicular (H_(z2)^(c)) to the CuO₂ planes, with
H_(z2)^(ab) extrapolating to near the Pauli paramagnetic limit of 160 T.
The longer superconducting coherence length than the lattice constant
along the c axis indicates that the orbital degrees of freedom of the
pairing wave function are three dimensional. By contrast, low-field
magnetization and specific heat measurements of Sr0.9Gd0.1CuO2 indicate
a coexistence of bulk _s_-wave superconductivity with large moment Gd
paramagnetism close to the CuO₂ planes, suggesting a strong confinement
of the spin degrees of freedom of the Cooper pair to the CuO₂ planes.
The region of the magnetic field-temperature phase diagram between
H_(z2)^(ab) and the irreversibility line in the magnetization,
$H_{\rm irr}^{ab}$ in Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 is anomalously large for an
electron-doped high-T_(c) cuprate. The large reversible region even
approaching zero temperature rules out thermal depinning scenarios. The
temperature dependence of $H_{\rm irr}^{ab}$ also differs fundamentally
from those predicted for the quenched-disorder-induced vortex phase
transitions for H∥c at low temperatures. Thus, our finding of a strongly
suppressed $H_{\rm irr}^{ab}$ relative to H_(z2)^(ab) at low
temperatures is suggestive of the existence of additional quantum
fluctuations, possibly due to a magnetic-field-induced competing order
such as the spin-density wave (SDW).

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.71.134526 [PACS number(s): 74.25.Dw,
74.25.Op, 74.72.Dn, 74.25.Ha ]134526 1098-0121/20057/11(13)134526 134526
1

## I Introduction

In the high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors, it has been suggested that
anisotropy plays an important role in the superconducting pairing
mechanism and the elevated T_(c) in both experimental and theoretical
work.[1, 2] It is surprising therefore to find superconductivity (SC)
with T_(c)=43 K in the optimal electron-doped infinite-layer cuprates
Sr0.9M_(0.1)CuO2 (_M_ = La,Gd), which exhibit only a 16

In this work we determine the upper critical field H_(c2) and the
irreversibility field $H_{\rm irr}$ of Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 by means of
magnetization and penetration depth measurements in pulsed magnetic
fields up to 60 T in order to directly investigate the degree of upper
critical field anisotropy and the role of vortex fluctuations. We also
present specific heat (_C_) and magnetization (_M_) measurements in low
dc fields to 6 T as a function of temperature (_T_) of Sr0.9Gd0.1CuO2,
confirming the bulk coexistence of Gd paramagnetism (PM) and SC.

Our results suggest strong confinement of the spin-pairing wave function
to the CuO₂ planes and significant field-induced superconducting
fluctuations.

## II Experimental Methods

Polycrystalline samples of Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ and Sr_(0.9)Gd_(0.1)CuO₂
were grown under high pressures as described previously, and c-axis
grain-aligned samples of Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ were prepared by mixing
powdered polycrystalline compound with epoxy and exposing them to a 11 T
magnetic field.[3, 4] Magnetization measurements in pulsed magnetic
fields were performed at the National High Magnetic Field Laboratory
(NHMFL) in Los Alamos, NM, in a ³He refrigerator in a 50 T magnet using
a compensated coil. The sample consisted of four pieces of
polycrystalline Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ with a total mass of 4.8 mg to
maximize signal and minimize heating. The irreversibility field
$H_{\rm irr}$ was identified from the onset of reversibility in the M(H)
loops. The penetration depth of Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ was determined by
measuring the frequency shift Δf of a tunnel diode oscillator (TDO)
resonant tank circuit with the sample contained in one of the component
inductors.[16] A ten-turn 0.7 mm diam aluminum coil was tightly wound
around the sample with a filling factor of greater than 90

## III Results and Analysis

### Studies of Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂

The bulk nature of superconductivity in Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ is
confirmed by specific-heat measurements shown in Fig 1. The ratio
ΔC/γT_(c) = 2.2 assuming[9]γ=1.2 mJ/mol K².

The frequency shift Δf relative to the normal state and the
corresponding Δλ of bulk randomly oriented polycrystalline
Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ are shown in Fig. 2(a) as a function of H. The
inset shows the T dependence of Δf in zero magnetic field. The
normal-state resonant frequency f that is reached with increasing field
can only be determined for T≫ 30 K; for lower T the sample remains
superconducting to 60 T so Δf is estimated by extrapolation. The
frequency shift of the empty coil has been subtracted from all data. The
onset of diamagnetism with decreasing H in the λ(H) data can be
identified with the largest H_(c2), H_(c2)^(ab) for fields in the CuO₂
planes. The onset is defined as H where Δf> 5 kHz (Δλ > 30 nm), just
above the noise of the experiment. Different onset criteria have only
minor effects on the determination of H_(c2)^(ab), as shown in Fig. 3,
where H_(c2)^(ab) using an onset criteria of 5 and 10 kHz are shown as
filled circles and diamonds, respectively. This identification of
H_(c2)^(ab) is independently confirmed by measurements of c-axis
grain-aligned samples with H in the a-b plane, shown as open circles in
Fig. 3.

Determination of the critical fields for H along the c axis, H_(c2)^(c),
has been performed using both polycrystalline samples and c-axis-aligned
samples with H parallel to c. For the polycrystalline samples, a change
in slope is observed in λ(H), indicated as H_(c2)^(c) in Fig. 2(b). This
change in slope would be expected at the lower upper critical field,
H_(c2)^(c), since the number of grains in the polycrystal that are
superconducting var

Figure 2: (a) Change in resonant frequency Δf of the TDO tank circuit
relative to the normal state as a function of magnetic field H of a
Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ polycrystal at various temperatures T. The
estimated change in penetration depth λ is indicated on the right axis.
Inset: Δf as a function of T at zero field, where T_(c)=43 K. (b)
Derivative of λ with H for various T, with arrows indicating the kink
corresponding to H_(c2)^(c). (c) Δf vs H for c-axis-aligned
Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ with H parallel to c for various temperatures.

Figure 1: Specific heat divided by temperature, C/T, vs T at H=0 minus
C/T at H=14 T of polycrystalline Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ showing the
superconducting transition.

ies with H for H _r__(c2)^(c) < _ tween zero-field-cooled and
field-cooled curves, indicating superconductivity.

In Fig. 5, the magnitude of the paramagnetic contribution from the Gd
ions is investigated quantitatively. The main figure shows _C_(_T_) at H
= 0 and H = 6 T. The H = 0 data is fit by a T3 dependence to model the
phonon contribution, (the electronic contribution at these temperatures
can be neglected). For H = 6 T, _C_(_T_) can be fit by the same T3
dependence as the H = 0 data, plus an additional contribution from the
Gd paramagnetic moments, derived from mean-field theory assuming the
Hund’s rule J = 7/2 moment, and one Gd ion for every ten unit cells. The
fit is remarkable, considering that there are no fitting parameters. In
the upper inset of Fig. 5, 1/_kh_ is plotted as function of T, where the
line is a Curie-Weiss fit with _m_eff = 8.2 m_(B), which is close to the
Hund’s rule moment of 7.6 m_(B) and the typically observed Gd moment of
8 m_(B). Thus, we can conclude that all of the Gd ions in the sample are
paramagnetic and coexist with SC down to 1.8 K. The bulk nature of the
SC in Sr0.9Gd0.1CuO2 is also evident from specific-heat measurements as
shown in the lower inset of Fig. 5, which shows the electronic
contribution to C plotted as _C_/_T_ versus T. _DC_ is determined by
subtracting the specific heat at H = 1 T from the zero-field data. The
Gd contribution to the specific heat is negligible at these high
temperatures. The peak near 43 K is associated with _T_c, and the ratio
_DC_/_gTc_ is 2.9, close to that of Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 mentioned previously,
also assuming a Sommerfeld coefficient [8] of g = 1.2 mJ/mol K2.

## IV Discussion

The coexistence of large-moment Gd ions with bulk superconductivity in
Sr0.9Gd0.1CuO2 is surprising since Sr0.9Gd0.1CuO2 is a three-dimensional
(3D) _s_-wave superconductor with a _c_-axis orbital coherence length
ξ_(c) = 5.2 A exceeding both the _c_-axis lattice parameter c and the
distance between the CuO2 planes and the Gd ions (1.7 A). [6] This is in
contrast to Gd_X_1_-,Ba2Cu3O7, where SC and Gd paramagnetism also
coexist with ξ_(c) greater than the CuO2. -Gd spacing, [28, 29] however,
the symmetry of the superconducting wave function is generally believed
to be d wave and the superconductivity is two-dimensional (2D) in nature
(_ξ__c_ < _c_). In Sr0.9Gd0.1CuO2, the apparent problem of 3D isotropic
_s_-wave SC coexisting with strong Gd local moments less than 1.7 A from
the CuO2 planes can be resolved by considering different length scales
for orbital and spin interactions among Cooper pairs. The coherence
length ξ_(c) derived from BCS and Ginzburg-Landau theories of
superconductivity describes the spatial extent of the orbital wave
function of the Cooper pairs and is not necessarily related to the the
spin-spin interaction distance. In the cuprates, the superexchange
coupling between adjacent Cu spins in the CuO2 plane is thought to be
mediated by the O atoms and is therefore highly directional along the
Cu-O bonds. Thus the spin and orbital parts of the superconducting wave
function can be considered separately, with the orbital wave function
overlapping adjacent CuO2 planes producing 3D superconductivity, whereas
the spin-wave function is strongly confined to the CuO2 planes.

Finally, we compare our proposed scenario of field-induced quantum
fluctuations for a strongly suppressed $H_{\rm irr}^{ab}$ with a recent
theoretical study [30] that investigated the effect of quenched disorder
and thermal fluctuations on the vortex dynamics of anisotropic type-II
superconductors. In the work by Kierfeld and Vinokur, [30] it is found
that quenched disorder can lead to an order-to-disorder vortex phase
transition for H ||_c_ in the cuprate superconductors, and the phase
boundary that separates the low-field Bragg glass (BrG) from the
high-field vortex glass (VG) is nearly independent of T for temperatures
below the depinning temperature. [30] On the other hand, at sufficiently
high fields, a vortex-glass-to-vortex-liquid (VL) melting transition can
take place with increasing temperature, and the VG-to-VL phase boundary
exhibits a strong temperature dependence, which extends to
$H_{\rm c2}^{el}$ for T → 0. [30] Clearly neither the VG-to-VL nor the
BrG-to-VG phase transition line agrees with the temperature dependence
of the $H_{\rm irr}^{ab}$ line of our Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 sample. The
order-to-disorder vortex phase transition is expected to be nearly
temperature independent, in contrast with our results. In addition, as
mentioned in Sec. III, the vortex configuration associated with H ||_ab_
in the cuprate superconductors is the least sensitive to
disorder-induced fluctuations because of strong intrinsic confinement of
vortices by the periodic CuO2 layered structure. In particular, this
intrinsic confinement is expected to be the strongest for the
infinite-layer cuprates because the _c_-axis lattice constant is
identical to the distance between two consecutive CuO2 layers. A
thermal-fluctuation-induced depinning scenario can also be ruled out
since the depinning effects observed in Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 remain
significant as T → 0. In a purely thermal depinning scenario, the
irreversibility field should approach _H_${}_{\rm c2}$ as T → 0. Thus an
additional mechanism for vortex depinning is necessary to explain the
phase diagram for Sr0.9La0.1CuO2. Recent theoretical [18, 24, 25] and
experimental [26, 27, 19, 23, 22, 25] studies for cuprate
superconductors have shown that competing orders in the cuprates may be
induced by either increasing magnetic field or increasing temperature,
and the induced competing order may be further stabilized by disorder.
We therefore conjecture that the presence of competing order can affect
the vortex dynamics of the cuprate superconductors in a fundamental way.
This issue awaits future theoretical investigation.

Figure 5: Main figure: specific heat C vs T at H = 0 and 6 T. Lines are
fits to a field-independent T3 phonon term plus a contribution from Gd
paramagnetism, assuming a Gd total momentum of J = 7/2. Upper inset:
inverse magnetic susceptibility 1/_kh_ vs T with H = 100 Oe, fit by a
Curie-Weiss law above _T_c = 43 K with _μ_eff = 8.2_μB_ and _θ__CW_ =
-27 K. Lower inset: electronic specific heat _DC_ vs T showing the
superconducting transition.

## V Summary

In conclusion, a large upper critical field anisotropy ratio γ=8 has
been inferred from penetration depth measurements of
Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ in pulsed fields, despite the nearly cubic crystal
structure. The in-plane upper critical field H_(c2)^(ab) extrapolates
close to the Pauli paramagnetic limit H_(c2)^(′)=159 T, suggesting
possible spin-limiting superconductivity for this orientation, as has
been observed in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)[31] There is a large separation
between H_(c2)^(ab) and the irreversibility field $H_{\rm irr}^{ab}$,
which extends down to T→0, suggesting the existence of field-induced
quantum fluctuations perhaps because of a competing SDW. In spite of the
significant anisotropy in the upper critical fields, ξ_(c), is longer
than the spacing between CuO₂ planes, indicating three-dimensionality of
the orbital wave function. The low-field measurements of
Sr_(0.9)Gd_(0.1)CuO₂ polycrystals indicate a coexistence of bulk SC with
Gd paramagnetism, with the full J=7/2 Hund’s rule moment despite the
close proximity of Gd atoms to the CuO₂ planes, and a T_(c) of 43 K in
both Sr_(0.9)Gd_(0.1)CuO₂ and Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂. This can be
interpreted in terms of a strong confinement of the spin degrees of
freedom of the Cooper pairs to the CuO₂ planes, whereas the orbital wave
functions overlap adjacent CuO₂ planes and exhibit isotropic s-wave
symmetry as determined by STS measurements.[6]

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant
No. DMR-0103045 and DMR-0405088, and through the National High Magnetic
Field Laboratory. V.Z. acknowledges support from the Caltech Millikan
Postdoctoral Fellowship program and the Department of Energy through the
LANL Director-Funded Postdoctoral program.

## References

* [1] See, e.g., P. W. Anderson, _The Theory of Superconductivity in
High-T_(c) Cuprates_ (Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 1997),
and references therein. * [2] M. B. Maple, E. D. Bauer, V. S. Zapf, and
J. Wosnitza, in _The Physics of Superconductors_, edited by K. H.
Bennemann and J. B. Ketterson (Springer, 2004), Vol. II, Chap. 8, pp.
555-730. * [3] C. U. Jung, J. Y. Kim, M.-S. Kim, M.-S. Park, H.-J. Kim,
Y. Yao, S. Y. Lee, and S.-I. Lee, Physica C **366**, 299 (2002). * [4]
R. S. Liu, J. M. Chen, P. Nachimuthu, R. Gundakaram, C. U. Jung, J. Y.
Kim, and S. I. Lee, Solid State Commun. **118**, 367 (2001). * [5] M.-S.
Kim, T. R. Lemberger, C. U. Jung, J.-H. Choi, J. Y. Kim, H.-J. Kim, and
S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 214509 (2002). * [6] C.-T. Chen, P.
Seneor, N.-C. Yeh, R. P. Vasquez, L. D. Bell, C. U. Jung, J. Y. Kim,
M.-S. Park, H.-J. Kim, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 227002
(2002). * [7] C. U. Jung, J. Y. Kim, M.-S. Park, M.-S. Kim, H.-J. Kim,
S. Y. Lee, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 172501 (2002). * [8] Z.
Y. Liu, H. H. Wen, L. Shan, H. P. Yang, X. F. Lu, H. Gao, M.-S. Park, C.
U. Jung, and S.-I. Lee, Europhys. Lett. **69**, 263 (2005). * [9] G. V.
M. Williams, R. Dupree, A. Howes, S. Kramer, H. J. Trodahl, C. U. Jung,
M.-S. Park, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 224520 (2002). * [10] Z.
Hao, J. R. Clem, M. W. McElfresh, L. Civale, A. P. Malozemoff, and F.
Holtzberg, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2844 (1991). * [11] M.-S. Kim, C. U.
Jung, J. Y. Kim, J.-H. Choi, and S.-I. Lee, Solid State Commun. **123**,
17 (2002). * [12] D. E. Farrell, S. Bonham, J. Foster, Y. C. Chang, P.
Z. Jiang, K. G. Vandervoort, D. J. Lam, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **63**, 782 (1989). * [13] D. E. Farrell, C. M. Williams, S. A.
Wolf, N. P. Bansal, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 2805
(1988). * [14] C. U. Jung, J. Y. Kim, S.-I. Lee, and M.-S. Kim, Physica
C **391**, 319 (2003). * [15] C. Mielke, J. Singleton, M.-S. Nam, N.
Harrison, C. C. Agosta, B. Fravel, and L. K. Montgomery, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **13**, 8325 (2001). * [16] S. L. Bud’ko, V. G. Kogan,
and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 180506(R) (2001). * [17] P.
Fournier and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 094507 (2003). * [18] E.
Demler, S. Sachdev, and Y. Zhang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 067202
(2001). * [19] Y. S. Lee, R. J. Birgeneau, M. A. Kastner, Y. Endoh, S.
Wakimoto, K. Yamada, R. W. Erwin, S.-H. Lee, and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev.
B **60**, 3643 (1999). * [20] H. J. Kang, P. Dai, J. W. Lynn, M.
Matsuura, J. R. Thompson, S.-C. Zhang, D. N. Argyriou, Y. Onose, and Y.
Tokura, Nature (London) **423**, 522 (2003). * [21] M. Matsuura, P. Dai,
H. J. Kang, J. W. Lynn, D. N. Argyriou, K. Prokes, Y. Onose, and Y.
Tokura, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 144503 (2003). * [22] B. Lake, H. M.
Ronnow, N. B. Christensen, G. Aeppli, K. Lefmann, D. F. Mcmorrow, P.
Vorderwisch, P. Smeibidl, N. Mangkorntong, T. Sasagawa, M. Nohara, H.
Takagi, and T. E. Mason, Nature (London) **415**, 299 (2002). * [23] H.
A. Mook, P. Dai, S. M. Hayden, A. Hiess, J. W. Lynn, S.-H. Lee, and F.
Dogan, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 144513 (2002). * [24] S. Sachdev and S. C.
Zhang, Science **295**, 452 (2002). * [25] C.-T. Chen and N.-C. Yeh,
Phys. Rev. B **68**, 220505(R) (2003). * [26] N.-C. Yeh, C.-T. Chen, V.
S. Zapf, A. D. Beyer, C. R. Hughes, M.-S. Park, K.-H. Kim, and S.-I.
Lee, cond-mat/0408100, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B (to be published). * [27] N.
C. Yeh, C.-T. Chen, A. D. Beyer, C. R. Hughes, T. A. Corcovilos, and
S.-I. Lee, Physica C **408-410**, 792 (2004). * [28] J. M. Tarascon, W.
R. McKinnon, L. H. Greene, G. W. Hull, and E. M. Vogel, Phys. Rev. B
**36**, 226 (1987). * [29] U. Welp, W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, K. G.
Vandervoort, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1908 (1989). * [30]
J. Kierfeld and V. Vinokur, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 024501 (2004). * [31]
J. L. O’Brien, H. Nakagawa, A. S. Dzurak, R. G. Clark, B. E. Kane, N. E.
Lumpkin, R. P. Starrett, N. Muira, E. E. Mitchell, J. D. Goettee, D. G.
Rickel, and J. S. Brooks, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 1584 (2000).
