# Negative thermal expansion of MgB₂ in the superconducting state and
anomalous behavior

of the bulk Gruneisen function

J. J. Neumeier

T. Tomita

M. Debessai

J. S. Schilling

P. W. Barnes

D. G. Hinks

J. D. Jorgensen

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA

18 November 2005; published 9 December 2005

###### Abstract

The thermal expansion coefficient a of MgB₂ is revealed to change from
positive to negative on cooling through the superconducting transition
temperature _Tc_. The Gruneisen function also becomes negative at _Tc_
followed by a dramatic increase to large positive values at low
temperature. The results suggest anomalous coupling between
superconducting electrons and low-energy phonons.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.220505 + Footnote †: preprint: Roidl
combinations

Superconductivity in the binary compound MgB₂ near 39 K is a fascinating
development. Over the last few years, scientists have argued that a
lattice instability [1] and/or anomalous phonon behavior [2] might be
responsible for the high transition temperature. Specific attention has
focused on the _E_(2g)_ phonon, a bond-stretching phonon within the
plane of the hexagonal crystal structure. [2, 3, 4] In-plane tensile
strain, induced by lattice mismatch through thin-film growth, increases
the superconducting transition temperature _Tc_ to 41.8 K; this
enhancement was attributed to a decrease in the _E_(2g)_ phonon
frequency. [5] Phonons can be studied with techniques such as Raman
spectroscopy [3, 4] and heat capacity. [6, 7, 8] Often neglected in the
study of phonons is thermal expansion, partly because of the exceptional
resolution needed to resolve the transition at _Tc_.

Thermal expansion from powder diffraction measurements [9, 10] of MgB₂
have revealed an anomalous volume expansion on cooling below _Tc_.
However, _high-resolution_ thermal expansion measurements (dilatometry)
with a relative sensitivity approximately four orders of magnitude
better than powder diffraction are required for meaningful thermodynamic
analysis. Such measurements of polycrystalline MgB₂ were reported, [11]
but discrepancies with the diffraction data, such as the temperature at
which the thermal expansion coefficient a changes from positive to
negative, are apparent.

In this Rapid Communication, high-resolution thermal expansion
measurements of polycrystalline MgB₂ are presented. The results reveal a
change in sign of a at _Tc_, with negative thermal expansion below _Tc_;
these data agree with diffraction investigations, [9, 10] but offer
_exceedingly_ greater detail. Analysis of the bulk Gruneisen function
reveals anomalous behavior due to dominant low-energy phonon modes. The
change in sign of a at _precisely_ _Tc_ suggests a connection between
these phonon modes and superconductivity.

MgB₂, synthesized with ¹¹B as described previously, [12] was pelletized
(diameter=4.6 mm), placed in a boron nitride crucible and heated to 800
degC for 30 min at 3 GPa using a cubic multianvil press. A very thin
black layer, impurities from surface reaction with boron nitride, was
removed, leaving behind a brilliant gold-colored MgB₂ sample with
density 2.56 g/cm³ (100

Thermal expansion was measured with a capacitive dilatometer cell
(Fig. 1) constructed from fused quartz, [14] which has among the
smallest known thermal expansions. [15] Calibration is realized by
measuring copper [16] at 300 K and 79.3 K, where the length change of
fused quartz, ΔL/L_(300K), is zero. [15] During measurements, the sample
and cell (in thermal equilibrium) are warmed at 0.2 K/min as capacitance
and temperature are recorded at intervals ranging from 0.1 to 0.2 K. The
data are corrected for temperature-dependent changes in capacitance of
the empty cell, measured in a separate experiment, and the differential
expansion

Figure 1: Proposed of two L-shaped pieces connected via 100 -_μ_m-thick
springs, _all_ components of the dilatometer cell are made of fused
quartz. Cr/Au (100 Å/1000 Å) 1.6 cm² capacitor plates are perpendicular
to the page’s plane (electrical contacts shown); a guard ring (at earth)
encircles the low plate. A Be-Cu strap (not shown) secures the sample
block. Expansion of the sample changes the capacitor gap.

between the cell and sample using data for quartz.[15] These
contributions amount to 2.7

Linear thermal expansion ΔL/L_(6K) is shown in Fig. 2. These raw data
have been corrected for the thermal expansion of quartz as described
above with no other processing. The length decreases with temperature,
as occurs in most materials, but it expands on cooling below T_(c)=38.7
K as illustrated in the inset where the 20 A scale reveals the
_absolute_ length change of the 4238 μm long specimen. The distinct
change in ΔL/L_(6K) near T_(c) is highlighted further in the inset of
Fig. 3 where _angstrom-scale_ resolution and the continuous
(second-order) nature of the phase transition are evident. The
measurement was repeated three times along the 3665 μm length and three
times along the 4238 μm length with similar results to those shown in
Figs. 2 and 3. The overall linear expansion
(L_(300K)−L_(6K))/L_(6K)=119.2(4) × 10⁻⁵.

The thermal expansion coefficient α=(1/L_(6K))∂ΔL/∂T is obtained by
fitting the data in Fig. 2 using Chebyshev polynomials and
differentiating; overlap between neighboring fit regions assures a
smooth derivative and caution is exercised near the sharp feature at
T_(c). This method is typical for taking derivatives when tiny changes
between neighboring data points occurs.[17] The resulting α values are
plotted between 0 and 50 K in Fig. 3; all six measurements showed
similar behavior. Note that α(50 K) is 16.7 times smaller than that of
copper,[16] a consequence of the large Debye temperature[7] of MgB₂.
Negative thermal expansion sets in at precisely T_(c) and further
inspection reveals a crossover at 18.7 K to α> 0. Furthermore, a broad
peak is evident in α at 9.7 K, below which it decreases. According to
the third law of thermodynamics, α should approach zero at T=0; this
behavior is illustrated by the (hypothetical) dashed line in Fig. 3.

The jump in α at T_(c) (solid lines Fig. 3), Δα= α_(N)−α_(S) = 6.3(7)×
10⁻⁸ K⁻¹, was obtained after averaging the jumps observed in six
measurements; N represents the normal state and S the superconducting
state. This value agrees with Δα =5.8× 10⁻⁸ K⁻¹ reported previously;[11]
in that paper, α< 0 below 10 K, but remained above zero for T> 10 K.
These differences may be associated with (1) the high density of our
specimen, since polycrystalline MgB₂ prepared by the method in Ref. [11]
it is highly porous with low cohexisiveness and elastic modulus,[18] (2)
the higher T_(c) (38.7 K vs 37.8 K), or (3) the copper thermal expansion
cell used in Ref. [11] which requires a significantly larger correction
to the data than our cell (see above). Behavior in ΔL/L_(6K) similar to
that of Fig. 2 was revealed in diffraction measurements,[9, 10] but the
present data offer far more resolution.

Heat capacity at constant pressure C_(P) was measured on the same
sample. A background of the form C_(P)=A₁T + A₃T³+A₅T⁵ (A₁, A₃, and A₅
are constants) is subtracted, which was obtained by fitting C_(P)(9
tesla) in the range 25 K <T< 50 K; the form of this background is
identical to that used previously.[7] A clear feature is observed at
T_(c) =38.7 K (lower inset of Fig. 4). The solid lines denote the
steplike behavior expected for a continuous (second-order) phase
transition. Using an entropy-conserving construction, the jump
ΔC_(P)=−121(1) mJ/mole K is estimated.

The Ehrenfest relation,

$$\frac{dT_{c}}{dP}=3vT_{c}\frac{\Delta\alpha}{\Delta C_{P}},$$
(1)

provides the connection between the pressure derivative of T_(c), Δα,
and ΔC_(P) (v is the molar volume). It has yielded

Figure 3: Inset shows ΔL/L_(6K) near T_(c) illustrating the change in
slope, excellent resolution of the data, and continuous nature of the
phase transition. The solid line in the inset is the fit that, after
differentiation, yields the thermal expansion coefficient α (main
panel). Solid lines indicate the jump in α at T_(c). The dashed line
below 6 K denotes hypothetical behavior.

Figure 2: Linear thermal expansion ΔL/L_(6K) of the 4238 μm long
specimen. The region near T_(c) is shown in the inset; the 20 Å scale
indicates the absolute length change.

dT_(c)/dP in agreement with experiment for other superconductors.[19,
20] Using Δα=6.3(7) × 10⁻⁸ K⁻¹, ΔC_(P)=−121(1) mJ/mole K, and
v=1.74 × 10⁻⁵ m³/mole,[9]dT_(c)/dP=−1.05(13) K/GPa is obtained.
Variation in ΔC_(P) values[8] (66 mJ/mole K to 133 mJ/mole K)
underscores the importance of measure ΔC_(P) and Δα on the same sample
to reliably estimate dT_(c)/dP.

To test the calculation via Eq. (1), dT_(c)/dP was measured on our
sample using a _purely hydrostatic method_. Pressure was changed below
55 K and only one transition (P=0.63 GPa) was measured in solid helium.
T_(c)(P) was determined from the midpoint of the superconducting
transition in the real part of the ac magnetic susceptibility. The data
(Fig. 5) show that T_(c) decreases at dT_(c)/dP=−1.07(0.03) K/GPa,
similar to prior reports.[13] This value is in excellent agreement with
the value predicted by the Ehrenfest relation. This observation together
with the continuous behavior of ΔL/L_(6K) eliminates the possibility of
a significant lattice instability in MgB₂ for 6 K <T< 300 K.

While negative thermal expansivities are not that unusual,[21] the
crossover of α from positive to negative, at precisely T_(c), is rare.
Tantalum exhibits a slight negative[22]α below T_(c)=4.4 K; what
distinguishes this feature in MgB₂ is that α is eight times larger above
T_(c), and that it becomes strongly negative below T_(c). Thus, the
electronic transition into the superconducting state has a significant
impact on the thermal expansion at and below T_(c) as revealed in Figs.
2 and 3.

Thermal expansion is a sensitive probe of phonon behavior which is
analyzed through the bulk Gruneisen function γ_(G)=β_BV/C_(V)_
calculated using data[18] for the bulk modulus B and our measurements of
the volume thermal expansion coefficient β=3α, V, and C_(P) [the heat
capacity at constant volume C_(V)=C_(P) (Ref. [23]]). It is a
dimensionless weighted sum[21] of γ_(i) values (i.e.,
γ_(G)=∑_(i)c_(i)γ_(i)/∑_(i)c_(i) where c_(i)=e^(−Δα/k_(B)T); h is the
Planck constant divided by 2π and k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant) each
associated with a phonon mode of vibrational frequency ω_(i) and
γ_(i)=−dln ω_(i)/dln V. γ_(G) has a value of 1.30 near 300 K, rises
slightly to 1.35 at 90 K followed by a gradual decrease. This decrease
continues (see Fig. 4), until γ_(G) crosses zero at T_(c), reaches a
minimum of −1.65 at 24.5 K, before increasing to 34.2 at 5.8 K.
Nonmonotonic behavior of the Gruneisen function is a consequence of
strong anharmonic lattice vibrations,[24] which have been observed[3, 4]
in MgB₂. The negative as well as the large positive values of γ_(G) must
be associated with anomalous phonon modes that dominate the weighted sum
due to their respective thermal populations; electron-phonon
interactions will also play a role.

In other layered materials, negative α values are generally associated
with transverse acoustic vibrations, which propagate in the layers,[24]
leading to negative a-axis γ_(i) values. As a result, the change in sign
of α and γ_(G) at T_(c), coincident with hardening of the E_(2g)
phonon,[4] is likely connected to planar electron-phonon interactions
associated with the σ-band (in-plane) superconducting gap.[25, 26, 27]

At low temperature, differences in the intralayer bonding (along the c
axis) may lead to low-energy phonon excitations and large c-axis γ_(i)
values with high relative thermal population that cause the upturn of
γ_(G) below 20 K; such behavior occurs in other layered materials,
albeit with significantly smaller values[24] of γ_(G). In MgB₂, the
spectacular increase of γ_(G) coincides with a reduced C_(P) below =11
K, attributed to a second superconducting gap.[6, 7] Thus, C_(P) is
diminished because of electronic effects due to the second gap, α
remains large, and their ratio leads to anomalously large γ_(G) values.
These combined considerations suggest that the increase in γ_(G) at low
temperature may result from out-of-plane electron-phonon interactions,
associated with the weaker π-band superconducting gap,[25, 26, 27] which
have a strong impact on the c-axis γ_(i) values.

The results presented here compliment spectroscopic phonon probes, some
of which may be surface sensitive, by illustrating unusual phonon
behavior in two fundamental _bulk_ thermodynamic quantities, the
Gruneisen function and the

Figure 4: The main panel and upper inset show the bulk Gruneisen
function γ_(G) versus temperature. The lower inset shows heat capacity
C_(P) after subtraction of C_(P)(9 tesla); the solid line indicates the
jump expected for a continuous (second-order) phase transition.

Figure 5: In the inset T_(c) versus pressure is plotted. These data were
determined from the midpoint of the transition in the ac magnetic
susceptibility χ_(ac), shown in the main panel.

thermal expansion coefficient. Thermal excitations of electrons across
the two superconducting gaps, and their coupling to low-energy lattice
vibrations, play a role in the anomalous behavior of γ_(G) and α.

Thanks to J. Macaluso (Research Experiences for Undergraduate Students)
for constructing the dilatometer cell, R. Bollinger and H. Terashita for
assistance, W. E. Pickett, A. Serquis, and V. F. Nesterenko for
comments. This material is based upon work supported by the National
Science Foundation [Grants Nos. DMR 0504769, DMR 0301166, DMR 0244058
(MSU), and DMR 0404505 (Washington University)]. Work at ANL was
supported by the Department of Energy under Contract No.
W-31-109-ENG-38.

## References

* Slusky et al. (2001) J. S. Slusky, N. Rogado, K. W. Reagan, M. A.
Hayward, P. Khalifah, T. He, K. Inumaru, S. Loureiro, M. K. Hass, H. W.
Zandbergen, and R. J. Cava, Nature (London) **410**, 343 (2001). * An
and Pickett (2001) J. M. An and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**,
4366 (2001). * Goncharov and Struzhkin (2003) A. F. Goncharov and V. V.
Struzhkin, Physica C **385**, 117 (2003). * Mialitsin et al.
(unpublished) A. Mialitsin, B. S. Dennis, N. D. Zhigadlo, J. Karpinski,
and G. Blumberg (unpublished). * Pogrebnyakov et al. (2004) A. V.
Pogrebnyakov, J. M. Redwing, S. Raghavan, V. Vaithyanathan, D. G.
Schlom, S. Y. Xu, Q. Li, D. A. Tenne, A. Soukiassian, X. X. Xi, M. D.
Johannes, D. Kasinathan, W. E. Pickett, J. S. Wu, and J. C. H. Spence,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 147006 (2004). * Wang et al. (2001) Y. Wang, T.
Plackowski, and A. Junod, Physica C **355**, 179 (2001). * Bouquet et
al. (2001) F. Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. G. Hinks, and J.
D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). * Fisher et al.
(2003) R. A. Fisher, G. Li, J. C. Lashley, F. Bouquet, N. E. Phillips,
D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, and G. W. Crabtree, Physica C **385**, 180
(2003). * Jorgensen et al. (2001) J. D. Jorgensen, D. G. Hinks, and S.
Short, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 224522 (2001); J. D. Jorgensen, D. G. Hinks,
P. G. Radelli, W. I. F. David, and R. M. Ibberson, cond-mat/0205486. *
Xue et al. (2005) Y. Xue, S. Asada, A. Hosomichi, S. Naher, J. Xue, H.
Kaneko, H. Suzuki, T. Muranaka, and J. Akimitsu, J. Low Temp. Phys.
**138**, 1105 (2005). * Lortz et al. (2003) R. Lortz, C. Meingast, D.
Ernst, B. Renker, D. D. Lawrie, and J. P. Franck, J. Low Temp. Phys.
**131**, 1101 (2003). * Hinks et al. (2002) D. G. Hinks, J. D.
Jorgensen, H. Zheng, and S. Short, Physica C **382**, 166 (2002). *
Tomita et al. (2001) T. Tomita, J. J. Hamlin, J. S. Schilling, D. G.
Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 092505 (2001); S.
Deemyad, T. Tomita, J. J. Hamlin, B. R. Beckett, J. S. Schilling, D. G.
Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, S. Lee, and S. Tajima, Physica C **385**, 105
(2003). * Kund (1995) M. Kund, _Uniaxial Effekte in Organischen und
Keramischen Supraleierten_ (Harri Deutsch, Frankfurt, 1995); J. J.
Neumeier (unpublished). * Okaji et al. (1997) M. Okaji, N. Yamada, H.
Kato, and K. Nara, Cryogenics **37**, 251 (1997). * Kroeger and Swenson
(1977) F. R. Kroeger and C. A. Swenson, J. Appl. Phys. **48**, 853
(1977). * Cheney and Kincaid (1980) W. Cheney and D. Kincaid, _Numerical
Mathematics and Computing_ (Brooks/Cole, Monterey, 1980), p. 100. *
Harms et al. (2003) U. Harms, A. Serquis, R. B. Schwarz, and V. F.
Nesterenko, J. Supercond. **16**, 941 (2003); V. F. Nesterenko and Y.
Gu, Appl. Phys. Lett. **82**, 4104 (2003). * Meingast et al. (1993) C.
Meingast, J. Karpinski, E. Jilek, and E. Kaldis, Physica C **209**, 591
(1993). * Kund et al. (1998) M. Kund, J. J. Neumeier, K. Andres, J.
Markl, and G. Saemann-Ischenko, Physica C **296**, 173 (1998). * Barrera
et al. (2005) G. D. Barrera, J. A. O. Bruno, T. H. K. Barron, and N. L.
Allan, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **17**, 217 (2005). * White (1962) G.
K. White, Cryogenics **2**, 292 (1962). *
(23)(C_(P)-C_(V))=vBB²=1 × 10⁻² mJ/mole K at 40 K. * Abdullaev (2001) N.
A. Abdullaev, Phys. Solid State **43**, 697 (2001). * Choi et al. (2002)
H. J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, M. L. Cohen, and S. G. Louie, Nature
(London) **418**, 758 (2002). * Souma et al. (2003) S. Souma, Y.
Machida, T. Sato, T. Takahashi, H. Matsui, S.-C. Wang, H. Ding, A.
Kaminski, J. C. Campuzano, S. Sasaki, and K. Kadowaki, Nature (London)
**423**, 65 (2003). * Geerk et al. (2005) J. Geerk, R. Schneider, G.
Linker, A. G. Zaitsev, R. Heid, K.-P. Bohnen, and H. v. Lohneysen, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **94**, 227005 (2005).
