# Structure and superconductivity in pyrite Ir0.95-_x_Rh_x_Te2: A
comparison with analogous selenides

Jiangang Guo,^(1,) Yanpeng Qi,¹ and Hideo Hosono^(1, 2)

¹Frontier research center, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259
Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

²Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

Received 9 May 2013; published 11 June 2013

###### Abstract

We report the structural and superconducting evolution of the solid
solution of Ir0.95-_x_Rh_x_Te2 (0 ≤x≤ 0.52) and compare the results with
those of analogous selenides. The structural analysis revealed that the
unit cell unexpectedly expands and the separation of the Te2-2 dimer
exhibits a maximal value of around x = 0.2 with increasing Rh content.
However, unlike the domed _T_c in Ir0.94-_x_Rh_x_Te2, the present system
exhibits a monotonous decrease in _T_c, which is independent of the
instability of the Te2-2 dimer. As the analysis of resistivity and heat
capacity, it is suggested that electron-electron/phonon correlation
strength is a considerable factor leading to the different evolution of
_T_c in the vicinity of the structural instability state of pyrite
superconductors.

pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.70.Dd, 74.20.Mn + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **87**, 224504 (2013)

## I Introduction

Improving our understanding of the ground state of compounds that
contain a heavy transition metal (TM) element has become increasingly
desirable due to fascinating properties such as Mott insulator,[1, 2]
superconductivity,[3] and spin-orbital coupling.[4, 5, 6] Compared with
the spatial extension (_W_) of the orbital of a 3d TM element, that of
4_d_/5d electron orbitals should be broader and there should be reduced
on-site Coulomb repulsion (_U_). It is known that the group 9
K2NiF4-type oxides exhibit various intrinsic states, e.g., Sr2CoO4 is a
ferromagnetic metal, whereas Sr2RhO4 is a simple metal.[7, 8] The
analogous 5_d_-Sr2IrO4 is a Mott insulator, and the inherently different
ground state could be ascribed to the nontrivial spin-orbital coupling
(SOC) induced by the large crystal field effect.[4, 6]

We have previously reported the exotic properties of defective 5_d_-TM
pyrite chalcogenides Ir0.75Ch2 (Ch = Se, Te), of which Ir0.75Se2 shows
localized insulator behavior.[9] As Ir vacancies are gradually filled by
Ir, the unit cell size and the separation of the Se2-2 dimer
systemically increases. Simultaneously, the transition from insulator to
superconductor occurs, and the superconducting transition temperature
(_T_c) monotonically increases to 6.4 K. Furthermore, the 4d element Rh
substitution for Ir leads to the unexpected expansion of the unit cell
and the maximal separation of the Se2-2 dimer. The compound
Ir0.85Rh0.36Se2 shows the highest _T_c, 9.6 K, which corresponds to the
weakest bonding state of the Se2-2 dimer.[10] Meanwhile, the maximal
_T_c and the strongest electron-phonon coupling (EPC) emerge in the
vicinity of the largest separation of the Se2-2 dimer, which might be
correlated with structural instability due to the destabilization of the
anion dimers.

The analogous Ir0.75Te2 also could be synthesized at ambient pressure.
This material is a metal at the weak-localized state and exhibits
superconductivity at 1.8 K.[11] We thought pressure synthesis would be
effective to increase the occupancy of Ir and further to stabilize the
pyrite phase.[12] As a consequence, the maximal content of Ir could be
enhanced to 0.93 for Ir0.93Te2 having the highest _T_c of 4.7 K.[9] The
variation of crystallographic parameters and _T_c show similar features
to those of the selenides. Nevertheless, the EPC strength of pyrite
Ir0.93Te2, judging from the relatively smaller normalized heat-capacity
jump, is clearly weaker than that of Ir0.91Se2.[9, 10] It would
therefore be of interest to elucidate how crystal structure and
superconductivity evolve with 4d Rh metal substitution in reduced
correlated pyrite IrTe2 superconductors.

In this paper, we report the synthesis, structural changes, and
superconducting properties of solid-solution Ir0.95-_x_Rh_x_Te2 (0 ≤x≤
0.52). The structural analyses indicated that the unit cell continuously
expands and the separation of the Te2-2 dimer had a maximum value at the
intermediate composition. In contrast to that of Ir0.94-_x_Rh_x_Se2, the
_T_c is just suppressed and appears to be irrelevant to the
destabilization of the anion Te2-2 dimer. Combined with the heat
capacity analysis, the absence of a peak _T_c in the range of the
weakest bonding state of the dimer can likely be ascribed to the smaller
electron-electron correlated strength of Ir0.95-_x_Rh_x_Te2.

## II Experiment

Highly pure powders of Ir, Rh, and Te were mixed at the desired ratio,
pelletized, and placed in an _h_-BN capsule. The assembly was heated at
1573 K and subjected to 5 GPa for 2 h using a belt-type high-pressure
and high-temperature apparatus. All starting materials and precursors
for the synthesis were prepared in a glove box filled with purified Ar
gas (H2O, O2 < 1 ppm). The phase identification of the resulting samples
was carried out by powder x-ray diffraction (PXRD) using a Bruker
diffractometer (model D8 ADVANCE; Cu rotating anode). The Rietveld
refinement of the PXRD patterns was performed using the TOPS code.[13]
Elemental compositions were determined using an electron-probe
microanalyzer (EPMA, JEOL, Inc., model JXA-8530F). The micrometer scale
compositions within the main phase were probed on 5 to 10 focal points,
and the results were averaged. The dependence of dc electrical
resistivity was measured by the conventional four-probe method with a
physical property measurement system (PPMS, Quantum Design). Magnetic
measurements were performed using a vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM,
Quantum Design). Specific heat data were obtained using the conventional
thermal relaxation method with the PPMS.

## III Results and discussion

The EPMA results revealed that the sum of Ir and Rh is 0.95 ± 0.01, and
thus the formation of vacancies can be negligibly small. The x-ray
diffraction patterns of solid solutions could be successfully refined as
a pyrite IrTe₂ model. The selected crystallographic parameters of
Ir_(0.95 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ and the sketched crystal structure are shown in
Fig. 1. As seen in Fig. 1(a), the lattice constant and Ir/Rh-Se bond
length varied with increasing Rh content. Although the larger Ir⁴⁺ ions
were substituted by smaller 4d Rh⁴⁺ ions, the size of the unit cell
increased and then slowly saturated. The maximal lattice constant,
6.4462(3) A, finally approached the reported value of RhTe₂.[14] As
regards the separation of the Te₂⁻² dimer, the value of 2.9695(2) A
initially increased, after which it decreased. The maximal distance
between dimers emerged at about x = 0.2, which indicated that the
bonding state of the Te₂⁻² dimer was at its weakest state and exhibited
a behavior similar to that of Ir_(0.95 − x)Rh_(x)Se₂ (see below).
Meanwhile, the Ir/Rh-Se bond length showed a similar trend in terms of
the variation of the unit cell. The anomaly observed in the intermediate
composition suggested that the Ir/Rh-Te bond is strongly affected by the
weak bonding state of the Te₂⁻² dimer. This complex structural change
indicated that the dominant factor in lattice variation may not be the
size of the transition element, but rather the geometry and polarization
of the TMCh₆ polyhedral in a pyrite structure.[15]

Figure 2 shows the electrical transport properties of
Ir_(0.95 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ from 2 to 300 K. As shown in Fig. 2(a), all
samples exhibited metallic behavior, and the small hump observed at
moderate temperatures quickly disappeared upon substitution of Rh for
Ir. It is reported that a hump at 350 K for Ir_(0.75)Te₂ was identified
as the structural transition from cubic lattice to rhombohedral lattice,
which in general changed the distortion of the IrTe₆ polyhedra.[11]
Provided that two types of humps have the same origin, it seems that
Ir-filled and Rh doping could suppress the phase transition, which might
be involved with the larger distortion of IrTe₆ polyhedral geometry and
the enhanced charge fluctuation.[9] Within the lower temperature range,
the resistivity of all samples suddenly decreased to zero. The detailed
superconducting transition is shown in Fig. 2(b). The T_(c) monotonously
decreased with increasing Rh content, and the lowest T_(c) under the
present limitations was 2.4 K for Ir_(0.43)Rh_(0.52)Te₂. The
interpolated T_(c) of RhTe₂ was 1.3 K, i.e., almost consistent with the
reported value of 1.5 K.[14] In addition, the power-law equation
ρ = ρ₀ + AT^(n), where ρ₀ is residual resistivity and A is constant,
could be applied to fit the normal-state resistivity below 50 K. The
rhodium composition dependence of the obtained value n is plotted in
Fig. 2(c). The value of n increased from 1.6 to 2 for x = 0.2, which
indicated that the system might evolve into a Fermi-liquid metal. As
x > 0.2, the normal-state resistivity behavior did not show any distinct
changes. It should be noted that Fermi-liquid behavior emerged at
x = 0.2, precisely where the separation of the Te₂⁻² dimer also
exhibited the largest value. In contrast to the domed T_(c) and T-linear
resistivity in Ir_(0.94 − x)Rh_(x)Se₂, the present superconducting
properties displayed differing Rh-substitution dependency, in spite of
the fact that both systems possess similar crystallographic properties.

The magnetic properties and specific heat (SH) at low temperatures are
shown in Fig. 3. The upper panel reveals that there were large
diamagnetic signals, indicating the bulk superconductivity nature for
all samples. We can see that the T_(c) monotonously decreases as Rh
substitution increases. The presence of hysteresis between zero field
cooling and field cooling indicates that the materials are type-II
superconductors. The lower panel shows the SH data for selected samples
with values of x = 0.2, 0.27, and 0.42 plotted as

Figure 2: (Color online) (a), (b) Temperature dependence of electrical
resistivity under a zero magnetic field below 305 K and 6 K,
respectively. (c) The value of n obtained from the fitting results of
normal-state electrical resistivity up to 50 K.

Figure 1: (Color online) Crystal structure and sketched crystal
structure of Ir_(0.95 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂. (a), (b) The variation of lattice
constants, the TM (lr/Rh) -Te bond length, and the separation of the
Te₂⁻dimer with increasing Rh content. The solid lines provide guides for
orientation. Inset is the crystal structure of the
Ir_(0.95 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ solid-state solution. The Oliver bonds denote the
bonds of the Te-Te dimer.

C_(p)/T versus T². Here, the temperature associated with the distinct
jump in C_(p)/T coincided with the electrical and magnetic data. The SH
data in the low-temperature range could be well fitted by
C_(p)/T = γ + βT² + δT⁴, which in turn means that the influence of high
frequency acoustic phonon branches is more significant than those of
selenides. The fitted curves yielded the Sommerfeld electronic
coefficients γ = 7.66, 7.79, and 8.77 mJ/mol K² for x = 0.2, 0.27, and
0.42, respectively, which showed only slight increments in the samples
with higher T_(c). The Debye temperatures calculated from the equation
Θ_(D) = (12π⁴nR/5β)^(1/3), where n is the number of atoms per formula
unit and R is the gas constant, were 260, 257, and 330 K for three
samples, respectively. Referring to the Θ_(D) (263 K) for IrTe₂, the
present variation in the Debye temperature Θ_(D) was similar to that of
Ir_(0.94 − x)Rh_(x)Se₂. In other words, with lower-content Rh
substitution, the Debye temperature changed slightly and reached the
smallest value for Ir_(0.68)Rh_(0.27)Te₂ when the bonding of the Te₂²⁻
dimer was weakest. With higher Rh contents, the Debye temperature
markedly increased once again. It was also noted that the normalized
heat capacity jumped at T_(c), ΔC/γT_(c), and monotonously decreased
from 2 to 1.3 for Ir_(0.53)Rh_(0.42)Te₂, which implies that the EPC
strength transits from an intermediate to a weak coupling state. As
previously reported, at the weakest bonding state of the Se₂²⁻ dimer,
the peak value of ΔC/γT_(c) was 3.53 and T-linear resistivity appeared,
thus indicating stronger EPC and electron-electron correlation strength
in the selenide system than in the present telluride system.[10]

The composition dependencies of the calculated Debye temperature and
superconducting parameters are summarized in Fig. 4. Interestingly, the
EPC state appeared to exhibit behavior similar to that of the decreasing
T_(c). Likewise, the larger γ in the lower-T_(c) sample is also unusual,
and it implies that EPC strength governs the T_(c) and EPC strength
decreases with increasing Rh content. Moreover, this consistency has
also been reported in the analogous Ir_(0.94 − x)Rh_(x)Se₂. Actually,
density functional theory (DFT) and phonon spectrum calculations on
tellurium[16] and BaSi₂[17] have pointed out that the increase in T_(c)
is closely correlated with an enhancement of EPC strength due to the
emergence of the soft phonon mode.

In addition, the smallest value of Θ_(D) emerges at the weakest bonding
state of Te₂²⁻ dimers, which has been observed in BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))
systems.[18] Such critical behavior usually implies phonon softening
within the range of structural instability or transition.[18; 19]
However, there seems to be a lack of rigid correspondence between the
critical nature of the separation of the anion dimer, Θ_(D) and T_(c).
Taking into account the competition of Hubbard repulsion U and the SOC
scenario presented by Pesin and Belents,[5] we considered that the
parent Ir_(0.75)Se₂ locates the boundary of the Mott insulator

Figure 4: (Color online) Summary and electronic phase diagram of
Ir_(0.95 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂. (a) The bond length of the anion Te-Te dimer
depends on the content of Rh. The separation of Se-Se dimer is drawn as
the reported data in Ref. [10]. (b) The Debye temperature Θ_(D) and
ΔC/γT_(c) as a function of rhodium content x. (c) The electronic phase
diagram of Ir_(0.95 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂. The orange solid line denotes the
crossover temperature from the weak-metal (WM) to the Fermi-liquid metal
state. The solid lines are guides.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependences of magnetic
properties at a magnetic field H of 10 Oe for Ir_(0.95 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂.
The upward and downward pointing triangles denote the zero-field-cooling
(ZFC) and field-cooling (FC) process, respectively. (b) The total heat
capacity divided by T as a function of temperature squared for x = 0.2,
027, and 0.42 at H = 0 KOe. The solid lines are the fitting results,
shown as a modified Debye model (see text).

phase, while Ir_(0.75)Te₂ would cross into the metal regime, due to the
reduced U, provided the SOC does not change substantially. Based on
previous DFT calculations of selenide, the Fermi energy is dominated by
the strong hybridization of the Ir/Rh-d and Se-4p orbitals.[9; 10]
Therefore, the more spatially spread Te 5p orbital could increase the
bandwidth and weaken the electron-electron correlation in
Ir_(0.95 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂, as reflected by the conventional Fermi-liquid
metallic behavior and reduced EPC in the intermediate composition.
Although the softest phonon mode may emerge in the range of the weakest
bonding of Te₂²⁻ dimers, the relative smaller EPC may still not suffice
to induce a peak T_(c) in weakly metallic telluride superconductors.

Here, we investigated the structural and superconducting properties of
solid solutions of Ir_(0.95 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂. Comparison study demonstrates
that pyrite IrCh₂ (Ch = Se, Te) superconductors share common features
with respect to structural changes and the destabilization of the Ch₂²⁻
dimer as Rh is substituted for Ir. However, the absence of a domed T_(c)
implies that the degree of electron-electron correlation and EPC
strength may be predominant comparing with the instability of the anion
dimer in the evolution of superconductivity. Additional phonon spectrum
calculations will be needed to clarify the contrasting behaviors of
these systems.

## Acknowledgment

This study was supported by the Funding Program for World-Leading
Innovative R&D in Science and Technology, Japan.

## References

* [1] Author to whom correspondence should be addressed:
guojg@lucid.msl.titech.ac.jp * [2] T. Mizokawa, L. H. Tjeng, G. A.
Sawatzky, G. Ghiringhelli, O. Tjernberg, N. B. Brookes, H. Fukazawa, S.
Nakatsuji, and Y. Maeno, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 077202 (2001). * [3]
H. Okabe, L. Isobe, E. Takayama-Muromachi, A. Koda, S. Takeshita, M.
Hiraishi, M. Miyazaki, R. Kadono, Y. Miyake, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev.
B **83**, 155118 (2011). * [4] Y. Maeno, H. Hashimoto, K. Yoshida, S.
Nishizaki, T. Fujita, J. G. Bednorz, and F. Lichtenberg, Nature (London)
**372**, 532 (1994). * [5] B. J. Kim, H. Jin, S. J. Moon, J.-Y. Kim,
B.-G. Park, C. S. Leem, J. Yu, T. W. Noh, C. Kim, S.-J. Oh, J.-H. Park,
V. Durairaj, G. Cao, and E. Rotenberg, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 076402
(2008). * [6] D. Pesin and L. Belents, Nature Phys. **6**, 376 (2010). *
[7] B. J. Kim, H. Ohsumi, T. Komesu, S. Sakai, T. Morita, H. Takagi, and
T. Arima, Science **323**, 1329 (2009). * [8] J. Matsuno, Y. Okimoto, Z.
Fang, X. Z. Yu, Y. Matsui, N. Nagaosa, M. Kawasaki, and Y. Tokura, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **93**, 167202 (2004). * [9] R. S. Perry, F. Baumberger, L.
Balicas, N. Kikugawa, N. J. C. Ingle, A. Rost, J. F. Mercure, Y. Maeno,
Z. X. Shen, and A. P. Mackenzie, New J. Phys. **8**, 175 (2006). * [10]
Y. Qi, S. Matusishi, J. Guo, H. Mizoguchi, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **107**, 217002 (2012). * [11] J. Guo, Y. Qi, S. Matusishi, and H.
Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **134**, 20001 (2012). * [12] L. Li, T. F. Qi,
L. S. Lin, X. X. Wu, X. T. Zhang, K. Butrouna, V. S. Cao, Y. H. Zhang,
J. Hu, S. J. Yuan, P. Schlottmann, L. E. De Long, and G. Cao, Phys. Rev.
B **87**, 174501 (2013). * [13] J. M. Leger, A. S. Pereira, J. Haines,
S. Jobic, and R. Brec, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **61**, 27 (2000). * [14]
TOPAS 2005, Version 3, Bruker AXS, Karlsruhe, Germany. * [15] S. Geller,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. **77**, 2641 (1955). * [16] M. Birkholz and R. Rudert,
Phys. Status Solidi B **245**, 1858 (2008). * [17] F. Mauri, O.
Zakharov, S. de Gironcoli, S. G. Louie, and M. L. Cohen, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **77**, 1151 (1996). * [18] J. A. Flores-Livas, R. Debord, S.
Botti, A. S. Miguel, M. A. L. Marques, and S. Pailhes, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**106**, 087002 (2011). * [19] D. Hirai, F. von Rohr, and R. J. Cava,
Phys. Rev. B **86**, 100505(R) (2012). * [20] K. Kudo, M. Takasuga, Y.
Okamoto, Z. Hiroi, and M. Nohara, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 097002
(2012).
