# Correlation between crystal structures of CaAlSi with and without
superlattice

and superconducting properties

S. Kuroiwa,¹ H. Sagayama,² T. Kakiuchi,³ H. Sawa,^(2, 3) Y. Noda,⁴ and
J. Akimitsu¹

¹Department of Physics and Mathematics, Aoyama-Gakuin University,
Sagamihara, Kanagawa 229-8558, Japan

²Photon Factory, Institute of Materials Structure Science, KEK, Tsukuba,
Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan

³Department of Materials Structure Science, The Graduate University for
Advanced Studies, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan

⁴Institute of Multidisciplinary Research for Advanced Materials, Tohoku
University, Sendai 980-8577, Japan

⁴April 2006January 2006January 2006January 2006January 2006January
2006January 2006January 2006January 2006January 2006January 2006January
2006January 2006January 2006January 2006

###### Abstract

We have succeeded in growing a phase in CaAlSi with Al and Si atoms
being distributed regularly in the AlSi layer corresponding to the B₂
plane in the AlB₂-type structure without a superlattice along the c
axis. The field-induced magnetic response in a phase exhibits an almost
isotropic characteristic for the respective crystal axis. Moreover, the
2Δ(0)/$k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ and
$\Delta C_{\rm d}$/$\gamma N_{\rm T}$${}_{\rm c}$ estimated by heat
capacity measurements are ∼3.5 and ∼1.4, respectively, indicating a BCS
superconductor with a weak coupling. Although CaAlSi has a
two-dimensional layered structure, these results strongly suggest that
the superconductivity of the phase in CaAlSi is derived from a
three-dimensional electronic ground state such as a conventional s-wave
superconductor, which is markedly different from those of
superstructured CaAlSi.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.74.014517 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **74**, 014517 (2006)

## I Introduction

The ternary silicide superconductor CaAlSi (CAS) with a layered
structure belongs to a class of AlB₂-type intermetallic compounds common
to MgB₂ (Ref. [1]) and exhibits superconductivity with a transition
temperature ($T_{\rm c}$) of ∼8 K.² Note that CAS has a practical
advantage over MgB₂ where large single crystals are available. Therefore
CAS may serve as one of the model systems for elucidating the
relationship between superconducting properties and crystal structure.
Because the origin of a high $T_{\rm c}$ in MgB₂ can be mainly explained
by the anisotropic electronic state (two-gap/two-carrier) in honeycomb
networks formed by boron atoms, for the CAS, the two-dimensional
electronic ground state composed by a hybridized sp-orbital of Al/Si
atoms has been drawing much interest as reference material for
understanding the key factor leading to such a high $T_{\rm c}$ in MgB₂.
Recently, Sagayama _et al._ has reported on the detailed crystal
structure focusing on the AlSi layer in CAS using synchrotron x-ray and
neutron diffraction analysis, which indicated the existence of a clear
fivefold (5_H_-CAS) or sixfold (6 _H_-CAS) superlattice along the c-axis
caused by the distortion and rotation in the AlSi layer.³ However, since
it is extremely difficult to synthesize the single phase of
polycrystalline fivefold and sixfold phases, none of them has been
successful to provide detailed superconducting characteristics.
Moreover, it should be noted that the so-called clean CAS (1 H), which
crystallizes to an AlB₂-like structure with _P_-_6m2 whose Al and Si
atoms are distributed regularly without a superlattice structure, is as
yet unknown at this stage.

Considering the various possible types of CAS crystal structure, we
should prepare a large single crystal sample and examine detailed
crystal structures by synchrotron x-ray and neutron diffraction
analyses. Interestingly, it turned out that our crystal exhibits no sign
of clear superlattice reflection or stacking faults along the c axis,
which is markedly different from that reported previously. Moreover, it
is notable that the positions of Al and Si atoms detected by neutron
diffraction are completely ordered in the ab-plane. We have found that
our crystal has an AlB₂-like crystal structure with Al and Si atoms
being distributed regularly in the B₂ plane without a superlattice
structure, which turned out to be a phase (1_H_-CAS).

In this work, we report on the detailed crystal structure of 1_H_-CAS
determined by synchrotron x-ray and neutron diffraction analyses and on
the basic physical properties of 1_H_-, 5_H_-, and 6_H_-CAS obtained by
magnetization, electrical resistivity, and heat capacity measurements.
Note that the $T_{\rm c}$ of the respective phase tends to depend on a
superstructured periodicity. Moreover, although the superstructured
specimens (5_H_- and 6_H_-CAS) show the presence of strong anisotropy in
the field-induced magnetic response and have a large superconducting gap
(strong coupling), 1_H_-CAS exhibits an isotropic superconducting
character for the respective crystal axis (H∥a and H∥c,) such an
ordinary BCS superconductor with s-wave pairing. These results strongly
suggest that there is a clear correlation between superlattice structure
and superconducting properties.

## II Experimental details and results

The feed and seed rods were prepared by the arc melting method with a
mixture of Ca (99.9

The synchrotron x-ray experiment was conducted using a conventional
four-axis diffractometer installed at BL-14A at the Photon Factory, KEK,
Tsukuba. The wavelength of the incident synchrotron x-ray beam
monochromatized by a Si (111) double-crystal monochromator was set to
0.7505 A, and scattered x ray was detected by an avalanche photodiode
(APD).[5] The Bragg reflection intensities were measured in a
full-sphere of reciprocal space in the range 2_th_ < 120deg. The total
and unique number of measured reflections were 3476 and 386,
respectively, and the crystalstructure program was used for refining the
structural parameters. The reliability factors R and _R_W were 1.1

Consequently, our crystal had an AlB2-like crystal structure with Al and
Si atoms being regularly distributed in the B2 plane without a
superlattice structure as shown in Fig. 2 (_P_-_6m2_ symmetry). We have
also confirmed that 5_H_-CAS and 6_H_-CAS exhibit clear fivefold and
sixfold superlattices along the c axis by synchrotron x-ray diffraction
analysis. We investigated the magnetic response and the transport and
thermal properties of 6_H_-, 5_H_- and 1_H_-CAS by dc magnetic
susceptibility, electrical resistivity, and heat capacity measurements
under several applied magnetic fields using a superconducting quantum
interference device (SQUID) magnetometer (MPMSR2, Quantum Design Co.,
Ltd.) and a PPMS system (Quantum Design Co., Ltd.).

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of dc magnetic susceptibility
at 1 mT for 6_H_-, 5_H_-, and 1_H_-CAS. The open and closed symbols
denote the zero field cooling (ZFC) and field cooling (FC) processes,
respectively. As shown in Fig. 3, the Meissner effect for 6_H_-, 5_H_-,
and 1_H_-CAS can be observed below  8,  6, and  7 K both in ZFC and FC.
Inset figures show the in-plane electrical resistivity ρ_(ab) as a
function of temperature at around _T_c. The ρ_(ab) values of 6_H_-,
5_H_-, and 1_H_-CAS significantly decrease at _T_c, as obtained from
magnetization measurements. The middle critical tem

Table 2: Superconducting parameters for respective crystal axis of
6_H_-, 5_H_-, and 1_H_-CAS.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of dc magnetic
susceptibility at 1 mT for 6_H_-, 5_H_-, and 1_H_-CAS. Inset figures
show the in-plane electrical resistivity ρ_(ab) as a function of
temperature at around _T_c.

∼ 3.52, respectively. We estimated the
$\Delta C_{\rm el}/\gamma_{\rm N}T_{\rm c}$ and
$2\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ of 1_H_-CAS to be approximately ∼1.4 and
∼3.5 [Δ(0)∼ 0.98 meV], respectively, suggesting that 1_H_-CAS is a
conventional BCS superconductor with weak coupling. The
$\Delta C_{\rm el}/\gamma_{\rm N}T_{\rm c}$ and
$2\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ of 6_H_- and 5_H_-CAS are larger than
those of the BCS weak coupling limit (see Table 2). These results
suggest that the superconductivity in superstructured specimens
indicates a strong coupling regime.

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of upper critical field
$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}$ (i=c and a axis), which was determined from
$T_{\rm c\mbox{-}middle}$ obtained by the magnetic susceptibility,
electrical resistivity, and specific heat at respective magnetic fields
(inset shows the upper critical field ratio γ vs temperature), and these
dashed lines are a visual guide. For 6_H_- and 5_H_-CAS, the
field-induced magnetic response between the in-plane and the interplane
has a strong anisotropy probably due to the two-dimensional electronic
state derived from a layered structure. It is notable, however, that the
$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}$ and $H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}$ of 1_H_-CAS show similar
temperature dependences, suggesting that 1_H_-CAS has an extremely small
anisotropy of magnetic response due to the three-dimensional electronic
ground state. According to the theoretical investigation, Mazin _et al._
also theoretically suggested that the Fermi level of 1_H_-CAS was mainly
formed by only one band of Ca d_(3z² − r²) orbital, and thereby has
extremely three-dimensional characteristics.[8] Meanwhile, the
anisotropy of magnetic response in superstructured specimens can be
possibly described by the substantial change of electronic ground state
due to the variation of Al-Si bonding from a hybridized sp²- to
sp³-orbital because of the buckling of the AlSi layers. For these three
phases, we have estimated $H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}(0)$ using the
Werthamer-Herfand-Hohenberg (WHH) equation, $H_{\rm c2}(0)$ =
0.69($-dH_{\rm c2}/dT$)$T_{\rm c}$, for the type II superconductor in a
dirty limit.[10, 11] Moreover, the anisotropic parameter Γ was
determined using the anisotropic Ginzburg-Landau (GL) formula

$$\sqrt{\Gamma}=\sqrt{\frac{m_{c}}{m_{a}}}=\frac{H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}}{H_{\rm c2}^ {\rm H}}=\frac{\xi_{a}}{\xi_{c}},$$
(1)

where m_(i) and ξ_(i) are the effective mass and GL-coherence length. We
calculated the ξ_(i) using
$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}=\Phi_{0}/(2\pi\xi_{a}\xi_{c})$ and
$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}=\Phi_{0}/(2\pi\xi_{a}^{2})$ where Φ₀ is the quantum
flux. The estimated $H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}(0)$ and ξ_(i) for the respective
crystal axis and anisotropic parameter Γ are listed in Table 2. Note
that the absolute value of $H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}(0)$ and anisotropic
parameter Γ (∼ 1.2) of 1_H_-CAS are much smaller than those of the
superstructured specimens. It is theoretically known that $H_{\rm c2}$
determined by the formula
$H_{\rm c2}\sim\Phi_{0}/\pi\xi_{0}l\sim 3ckT_{\rm c}/ev_{\rm F}l$, where
ξ₀ is the BCS coherence length, l is the mean free path, and $v_{\rm F}$
is the Fermi velocity, derived from the BCS theory; ξ₀
=$hv_{\rm F}/2\pi^{2}\Delta(0)$. Therefore the smaller
$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}(0)$ of 1_H_-CAS in comparison with that of the
superstructured specimens is closely related to the size of the energy
gap, which yields Δ(0)_(1H)∼0.98 meV and Δ(0)_(6H)∼ 1.74 meV, as
obtained by heat capacity measurement. In addition, the similar
$T_{\rm c}$ in the respective phases implies that the mean free path in
superstructured specimens is suppressed in comparison with that in
1_H_-CAS because of the superstructure due to the rugged AlSi layer.

## III Summary

We have succeeded in growing the superstructured specimens (6_H_- and
5_H_-CAS) and their phase (1_H_-CAS) with the in-plane ordered state
without a superlattice along the c-axis. We examined their physical
properties in detail by magnetization, electrical resistivity, and heat
capacity measurements. The obtained superconducting parameters of 6_H_-,
5_H_-, and 1 _H_-CAS are listed in Table 2. Note that the
superconductivity of 1_H_-CAS can be well-described by a conventional
BCS superconductor in a weak coupling regime; it had a typical thermal
property [$\Delta C_{\rm el}/\gamma_{\rm N}T_{\rm c}$∼ 1.4 and
$2\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$∼ 3.5] and an isotropic magnetic response
probably due to the three-dimensional electronic state. On the other
hand, the size of the superconducting gap (strong coupling regime),
$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}(0)$, and anisotropic parameter Γ in 6_H_- and
5_H_-CAS are extremely larger than those in 1_H_-CAS. These results
suggest that the electronic ground state in superstructured specimens is
significantly changed from three-dimensionality for 1_H_-CAS to
two-dimensionality which reflects the crystal structure. The origin of
the difference between superstructured specimens and 1_H_-CAS remains to
be clarified.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was partly supported by the 21st COE program, "High-Tech
Research Center" Project for Private Universities: matching fund subsidy
from MEXT (Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and
Technology; 2002-2004).

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of upper critical field
$H_{\rm c2}$ for 6_H_-, 5_H_-, and 1_H_-CAS. The respective closed and
open symbols indicate data measured for H∥a and H∥c, and the circle,
square, and triangle show data determined by magnetic susceptibility,
electrical resistivity, and heat capacity measurements under several
applied magnetic fields, respectively. The insets show the temperature
dependence of the upper critical fields ratio
γ(=$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}/H_{\rm c2}^{\rm H}$). These dashed lines are a
visual guide.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] M. Imai, E. I-Hadi,
S. Sadki, H. Abe, K. Nishida, T. Kimura, T. Sato, K. Hirata, and H.
Kitazawa, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 064512 (2003). * [3] H. Sagayama, Y.
Wakabayashi, H. Sawa, T. Kamiyama, A. Hoshikawa, S. Harjo, K. Uozato, A.
K. Ghosh, M. Tokunaga, and T. Tamegai, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 043713
(2006). * [4] A. K. Ghosh, M. Tokunaga, and T. Tamegai, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 054507 (2003). * [5] S. Kishimoto, N. Ishizawa, and T. P.
Vaalsta, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **68**, 384 (1998). * [6] Y. Noda, H.
Kimura, R. Kiyanagi, A. Kojima, Y. Morii, N. Minakawa, and N. Takesue,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, A456 (2001). * [7] P. Coppens, T. N. Guru, P.
Leung, E. D. Stevens, P. J. Becker, and Y. W. Yang, Acta Crystallogr.,
Sect. A: Cryst. Phys., Diffr., Theor. Gen. Crystallogr. **35**, 63
(1979). * [8] I. I. Mazin and D. A. Papaconstantopoulos, Phys. Rev. B
**69**, 180512(R) (2004). * [9] S. Kuroiwa, H. Takagiwa, M. Yamazawa, J.
Akimitsu, K. Ohishi, A. Koda, W. Higemoto, and R. Kadono, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **73**, 2631 (2004). * [10] E. Helfand and N. R. Werthamer, Phys.
Rev. **147**, 288 (1966). * [11] K. Maki, Phys. Rev. **148**, 362
(1966).
