# Temperature and doping dependence of the penetration depth in
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+_d_

O. Waldmann,* F. Steinmeyer,+ and P. Muller*

Walther-Meissner-Institut, Walther-Meissner-Strasse 8, D-85748 Garching,
Germany

J. J. Neumeier

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

F. X. Regi, H. Savary, and J. Schneck

France Telecom, Centre National d’Etudes des Telecommunications de
Bagneux, F-92220 Bagneux, France

Received 8 December 1995

###### Abstract

Using torque magnetometry in the Shubnikov state, we have studied the
London penetration depth λ_(ab)(T) of Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+_d_ and
(Pb2Bi1–)Sr2CaCu2O8+_d_ single crystals with different oxygen excess d.
With increasing charge carrier density n_(s)/m^(n) ∝ 1/λ_(ab)²(0) the
transition temperature at first increases, then approaches a maximum,
and finally decreases. The sample independent, universal behavior found
in the 1:2:3 family is not confirmed. Dependent on preparation
prehistory of the samples, either linear or quadratic low temperature
behavior of λ_(ab)(T) was observed. A linear term is seen for samples
with high maximum T_(c) ≈ 94 K, while samples with quadratic behavior
show a significantly reduced T_(c). The results are discussed in terms
of _d_-wave superconductivity with resonant impurity scattering.

In the current debate on possible pairing mechanisms in high temperature
superconductors, penetration depth measurements can provide two
important contributions.

(1) The transition temperature T_(c) is highly sensitive to the ratio of
the Cooper pair density n_(s) to the electron effective mass
m^(n)[ n_(s)/m^(n) ∝ 1/λ_(ab)²(0) ]. m^(n) is the electron effective
mass for transport parallel to the CuO2 layers. Previous investigations
yielded conflicting results. In muon spin-relaxation (μSR) measurements
in a wide class of high temperature superconductors (HTSC’s), Uemura _et
al._[1] reported a universal linear relation between T_(c) and
n_(s)/m^(n) at low carrier doping levels, whereas in heavily doped
samples saturation or a slight decrease was observed. In contrast, in
μSR measurements in Bi2–Pb2Sr2Ca1–Y.Cu2O8+_d_ with different x, z, and
d, Weber _et al._[2] found no systematic T_(c) vs n_(s)/m^(n)
correlation, although n_(s)/m^(n) varied by a factor of almost 2. In a
magnetization study of samples with different oxygen content, Daumling
_et al._[3] found a variation of the transition temperatures while the
absolute values of the penetration depth remained unchanged.

(2) The penetration depth at low temperatures allows different classes
of pairing mechanisms to be separated. A superconductor with _s_-wave
pairing exhibits a finite excitation energy with a minimum energy gap
Δ_(min). Therefore for clean superconductors λ(T) at low temperatures
varies as λ(T) − λ(0) ≈ exp (− Δ_(min)/k_(B)T). In contrast, all of the
possible non-_s_-wave spin singlet pairing states of a superconductor
with tetragonal or orthorhombic symmetry and a spherical or cylindrical
Fermi surface have line nodes in the gap leading to a linear temperature
dependence, [5, 6]λ(T) − λ(0)  ≈ T, in the clean limit. Impurity
scattering changes the temperature dependence of the penetration depth
for both _s_- and _d_-wave models.[7] For sufficiently strong scattering
a quadratic temperature dependence, λ(T) − λ(0)  ≈ T², is obtained.[7]
In the standard Born approximation, a high impurity concentration would
be required to obtain a quadratic law, resulting in a strong decrease of
T_(c) which has not been observed.[7] However, for a _d_-wave
superconductor with resonant scattering even a small impurity
concentration n_(i) gives rise to a quadratic temperature dependence
below a crossover temperature[8]$T^{n} \propto \sqrt{n_{i}}$. Above _T_*
the linear term is conserved. The small impurity concentration n_(i)
decreases T_(c) only slightly. Recently, in a series of experiments on
YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO) single crystals and epitaxial YBCO films, a linear
temperature dependence has been measured at low temperatures,[9] in
contrast to the quadratic behavior observed earlier.[10] After adding a
small concentration of zinc impurities, the linear temperature
dependence was shown to change to quadratic behavior below a crossover
temperature.[11] On the other hand, in YBCO films an exponential
temperature dependence has also been reported.[12] In the case of
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8 (BSCCO) quadratic temperature dependencies have been
observed so far.[10, 13]

Compared to YBCO, BSCCO is a simpler HTSC system; there are no CuO
chains which can mask any clear doping dependence. Furthermore, it is
extremely anisotropic,[14] nearly two dimensional,[15] and has only a
small orthorhombic distortion from the tetragonal unit cell.[16] The aim
of this work is to investigate the temperature and oxygen doping
dependence of the penetration depth in BSCCO in more detail. In the
following we first develop the method used to measure λ_(ab)(T). Then
setup and sample preparation are described. After the method’s
experimental check the results are discussed. We close with a
conclusion.

Our experimental approach allows the measurement of the temperature
dependence of the penetration depth for magnetic fields perpendicular to
the CuO2 planes, λ_(ab)(T), with high resolution as well as the precise
determination of its absolute value. As has been shown earlier, for
intermediate external fields, H_(c1) ≪ H ≪ H_(c2), the penetration depth
can be determined from the reversible magnetization contributed by the
closely packed arrangement of vortices.[17] In the anisotropic
Ginzburg-Landau model of Hao and Clem,[18] the magnetization
perpendicular to the CuO2 planes is given by

$$M_{\perp} = - \frac{\alpha\Phi_{0}}{8\,\pi\,\mu_{0}\lambda_{ab}^{2}}\ln\frac{\beta H _{c2\perp}}{H\,\cos\Theta}$$

where Th is the angle between the magnetic field and c axis of the
sample, and a = 0.77, b = 1.44 are constants in the field range 0.02 <
_H_/_H__c2_ < 0.3. Th is the magnetic flux quantum and m0 = 4 a ×10⁻⁷ vs
a m. Because of the large magnetic anisotropy g = _l_c_/_l_ab of BSCCO [
g = 240-900 (Ref. [14])] the magnetic properties can be regarded as two
dimensional in a wide angle range [19] tanTh(e.g., tan 89.8deg = 240).
The component of magnetization parallel to the CuO2 planes, _M_|, is
smaller than _M__(⊥) by an order of g. Therefore, the magnetization
being normal to the planes with high accuracy, the resulting torque is

τ = −μ₀VM_(⊥)H sin Θ

where V is the volume of the sample. Instead of evaluating _dM__(⊥)/d
ln_H_ k0/Λ_(ab)² [Eq. (1)] at fixed temperature points, we can enhance
the resolution of the measurement of the temperature dependence of the
penetration depth by applying a temperature sweep method in a fixed
field. If _bH__(c2⊥)(_T_) is known with logarithmic accuracy, both the
temperature dependence and the absolute value of l_(b)(_T_) can be
determined from torque _t_(_T_,H = const). As the superconducting volume
may be smaller than the sample volume, the determined values of the
penetration depth are upper bounds. The following points confirm that
the method is highly reliable in BSCCO.

(1) Due to the short coherence lengths __ <= l in HTSC’s, local theories
are an excellent approximation.[17,3] Furthermore, in BSCCO with
Ginzburg-Landau parameter k 130, _H__(c1) ≪ H ≪ H_(c2) is a wide field
range experimentally.

(2) The reversible magnetization is insensitive to geometric properties
of the vortex lattice. In the simple London theory the parameter b in
Eq. (1) describes the specific vortex lattice configuration[20]
(hexagonal, square, amorphous, liquid, etc.), but depends only weakly on
it. This is analogous to the small dependence of the Abrikosov parameter
_b_A on vortex structure (hexagonal: _b_A = 1.16, square: _b_A =
1.18).[20] In the treatment of Hao and Clem based on the more precise
Ginzburg-Landau model, the small energy differences between specific
vortex structures are even neglected.[18] The parameter b (and _a_) now
describes the corrections to the London model due to contributions from
the core condensation energy and kinetic energy associated with
gradients in the magnitude of the order parameter.

(3) Many alternative methods widely used to measure the penetration
depth are based upon the spatial dependence of the magnetic field. For
example, microwave techniques determine the penetration depth from the
spatial field dependence B = B ($\overset{\rightarrow}{r}/\lambda$) at a
surface in the Meissner state;[20]μSR techniques measure the weak
magnetic field distribution ⟨ΔB²⟩ ∝ λ⁻⁴ between vortices in the mixed
state.[21] However, in the method presented here the penetration depth
is determined essentially by the value of the magnetization _M__(⊥)
 ∝ Φ₀/Λ_(ab)² induced by superconducting currents, averaged over the
bulk of the sample. This eliminates possible sources of errors such as
shape effects, thermal expansion of the sample, surface effects,
fissures, surface degradation (O2 deficiency), multiply connected
material, etc. Furthermore, in fields of about 10 T the magnetization is
about a thousand times smaller than the field [_M__(⊥)(_H_ = 10 T)  10
mT]. Therefore demagnetization effects can clearly be neglected.

(4) In conventional type II superconductors it is hard to achieve a
reversible magnetization. However, in HTSC’s and especially in BSCCO,
the small pinning gives access to the reversible magnetization over a
wide temperature and field range. Compared to conventional methods for
determining the irreversibility line, e.g., ac susceptibility or
evaluation of magnetization curves _M_(_H_,T = const), the presented
method working in a strict dc-field mode yields a low lying
irreversibility line.

(5) The method’s range of validity can be determined experimentally. As
long as reversibility, scaling, and _M__(⊥)  ∝ ln (H) are fulfilled
simultaneously, any other known contribution to the magnetization is
negligible (e.g., fluctuations). Scaling will be explained below.

(6) In the quasi-two-dimensional (2D) regime, tanTh(e.g. < g, the
layered structure of the superconductor and any details of the weak
interlayer coupling are unimportant. For instance, the 2D limit of the
anisotropic London or Ginzburg-Landau theory is equivalent to that of
the Lawrence-Doniach model.[19]

The torque was measured with a torsion wire magnetometer[14] (diameter
26 mm, length 30 mm) which provides a high resolution of l _g_ = 10 - 12
Nm. This allows the temperature dependence of the penetration depth to
be determined with a resolution of 1 A for typical sample weights of 100
m g and fields up to 16 T. A small and reproducible thermal drift
amounts to about 10

BSCCO single crystals were grown by a self-flux method in alumina
(batches I and II) or gold crucibles (batches III and IV). Details of
preparation have been described elsewhere.[14,22] The single-crystal
structure was confirmed using x-ray diffraction. The stoichiometries of
all the samples were determined by x-ray microprobe fluorescence (values
given in Table I). Variations in samples from the same batch were small
(3 at

Figure 1 shows that the data are in excellent agreement with the
relation M_(⊥)(H) ≈ ln(H) in the field range between 5 T and 16 T. The
extrapolation to μ₀M_(⊥) = 0 T yields ln[βμ₀H_(c2⊥)]=ln[150 ÷ 20 T]
independent of temperature up to T ∼ 0.857_(c). As was observed by Cho
_et al._,24 the magnetization obeys a scaling law M_(⊥)(T, H) = f(T)g(H)
over a wide temperature range. Equation (1) then implies that βH_(c2⊥)
is temperature independent. The factorization of the magnetization into
a temperature independent term and a field independent term can be seen
in Figs. 1 and 2, respectively. The deviations from this scaling
behavior above ∼ 0.857_(c) (see Fig. 2) can be explained by the
temperature dependence of βH_(c2⊥) and by thermal vortex fluctuations.25
From measurements of the quasiparticle scattering intensity in the Raman
effect26 and the temperature dependence of the Josephson critical
current27 a very weak temperature dependence for the energy gap is seen
for Ar-annealed samples from batch III (see Table 2), while O₂-annealed
samples appear to be similar to the BCS behavior. A very weak
temperature dependence was also seen for as grown samples.28 The gap is
related to the upper critical field via the coherence length by
μ₀H_(c2⊥) = Φ₀/2 πξ_(ab)² and ξ_(ab) = ℏυ_(F)/πΔ (υ_(F) is the Fermi
velocity).20; 24 A weak temperature dependence even for O₂-annealed
samples can be seen in Fig. 1. As the penetration depth is determined
from the reversible magnetization, this method is limited to
temperatures above the irreversibility line $T_{\rm irr}(H)$. This is
indicated by an arrow in Fig. 2. Once the temperature decreases below
the irreversibility temperature $T_{\rm irr}$, the vortices get pinned
and the magnetization deviates from its equilibrium value.

Table 2 lists the most important properties of the investigated samples
in different annealing states. λ_(ab)(0) was determined by extrapolating
the low temperature power law to T = 0 K (see below). The small values
of λ_(ab)(0) and the high maximum T_(c) indicate excellent sample
quality. For every sample, the ratio of the charge carrier density to
the effective mass, given in the London theory by n_(s)/m* =
[μ₀e²λ_(ab)²(0)]⁻¹, increases with growing oxygen doping. The arrows in
Fig. 3 indicate the direction of increasing oxygen content. T_(c) as a
function of oxygen content thus possesses the well-known maximum.29 As
T_(c) versus n_(s)/m* behaves in the same manner (Fig. 3), n_(s)/m*
varies roughly proportionally to the oxygen content. It is remarkable
that n_(s)/m* for the Pb-doped sample B depends only weakly on oxygen
doping, although there is a striking influence on T_(c). Compared to the
Pb-free samples, an increase of n_(s)/m* by Pb doping is absent,
although Pb should introduce additional holes. It was argued earlier
that the Pb-doped holes are immobile and therefore do not contribute to
the charge carrier density.2 For sample C the T_(c) maximum is shifted
to lower n_(s)/m* although its Ca deficiency implies the addition of
holes. The universal behavior for T_(c) versus n_(s)/m* found by Uemura
_et al._1 cannot be confirmed for BSCCO. A proportionality of T_(c) and
n_(s)/m* for low doping

Figure 2: Magnetization normalized to the extrapolated value at T = 0 K
vs temperature T. Fields were 7.5 T, 10 T, and 14 T from bottom to top.
Towards low temperatures the magnetization freezes as the field
dependent irreversibility line is crossed. At temperatures above
∼0.857_(c) the curves spread under the combined influence of thermal
vortex fluctuations and a noticeable temperature dependence of βH_(c2⊥)
. In the intermediate temperature range scaling is perfect.

Figure 1: Magnetization normalized to the value at μ₀H = 6 T vs ln(H) at
different temperatures. The 22 K curve is strongly hysteretic. The 30 K,
40 K, and 50 K curves lie on the same line. The curves for 60 K and 70 K
show only very small deviations from the scaling law. Extrapolating to
μ₀M_(⊥) = 0 T yields ln[βμ₀H_(c2⊥)] = ln[150 T] for all curves.

levels and perhaps even for high doping cannot be excluded, but the
slopes and offsets are certainly not universal. Even if one stays within
the BSCCO family, they vary from batch to batch, i.e., with precise
batch stoichiometry. The data of Weber _et al._[2] did not exhibit a
significant T_(c) variation to within 10 K. They studied samples
differing in the oxygen concentration as well as a second component
(e.g., Ca) which both enter n_(s)/m*. Thus a T_(c) maximum as a function
of δ might be masked in the T_(c) vs n_(s)/m* diagram. It must be
concluded that in view of the complex phase equilibria of BSCCO a
comparison of the charge carrier density between different
stoichiometries is questionable. Furthermore, a wide range of n_(s)/m*
is realized in the BSCCO system, which is not due to simple doping
arithmetics. We remark that in general m* defined by
λ_(ab)² = m*^( s)/μ₀e²n_(s) is not related to the band effective mass
for transport in the CuO₂ layers except in the special cases of a
spherical or elliptical Fermi surface and an isotropic gap.[30] For
HTSC’s showing a more complex Fermi surface and potentially anisotropic
gap the deduction of m* is more complex.[30]

The temperature dependence of the penetration depth for different
samples is shown in Fig. 4. It is striking that all the measured curves
lie below those of the BCS theory with isotropic energy gap. λ_(ab)(T)
depends on the sample batch as well as on the oxygen content. The effect
of these two factors is best seen by approximating the penetration depth
at low temperatures by a power law λ_(ab)(T)/λ_(ab)(0) = 1 + αT^(β) with
β = 1 or β = 2 (Fig. 5). The dependence of λ_(ab)(0) on batch and oxygen
content has been discussed above. The exponent β is independent of the
annealing conditions and splits the samples into two groups. First,
sample D shows a linear temperature dependence of λ_(ab)(T) (β = 1) at
all three oxygen doping levels. The slope α decreases with increasing
oxygen content and increasing n_(s)/m*, respectively. Second, the other
samples with parabolic behavior (β = 2) have a T_(c) maximum lowered by
about 5 K. In the Pb-free sample (C) α increases with decreasing
n_(s)/m* while in the Pb-doped sample (B) α decreases. An interpretation
of the be

  -------- ------- -------- ------------ -------- ----------- ------------------------ ---
  Sample    Batch    Mass      Anneal     T_(c)    λ_(ab)(0)   α = Δ [λ /λ(0)]/ΔT^(β)   β
  A           I     108 μg   O₂ 300 bar    68 K     1900 Å         15.4×10⁻⁵ K⁻²        2
  B          II     300 μg    as grown     89 K     2200 Å         9.15×10⁻⁵ K⁻²        2
                                 Ar        87 K     2300 Å         7.24×10⁻⁵ K⁻²        2
                                 O₂       71.5 K    2000 Å         12.3×10⁻⁵ K⁻²        2
  C          III    87 μg     as grown     88 K     2700 Å         9.03×10⁻⁵ K⁻²        2
                                 O₂        80 K     2250 Å         8.42×10⁻⁵ K⁻²        2
  D          IV     190 μg    as grown     94 K     2050 Å         3.92×10⁻³ K⁻¹        1
                                 Ar        80 K     2700 Å         3.93×10⁻³ K⁻¹        1
                                 O₂       85.5 K    1950 Å         2.86×10⁻³ K⁻¹        1
  -------- ------- -------- ------------ -------- ----------- ------------------------ ---

Table 2: Sample characterization. The samples were annealed in the
sequence given in the column “Anneal.” The annealing temperature was 550
°C–650 °C. The penetration depth is characterized by the low temperature
behavior λ(T)/λ(0) = 1 + αT^(β) with β = 1 or β = 2. The accuracy of
T_(c) and λ_(ab)(0) are given in the text, that of α is 3

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the normalized penetration depth.
Sample codes are given from top to bottom in the order of the low
temperature values (see Table 2). Due to fluctuations the curves do not
vanish at T_(c) (see Fig. 2 and text). For comparison, the two-fluid
model and the BCS result for clean superconductors in the weak coupling
limit are included.

Figure 3: Transition temperature T_(c) vs n_(s)/m*. The dashed lines
interconnect the data of one sample. Arrows indicate the direction of
increasing oxygen content.

havior of the slope α is not yet known. The exponent β could be
explained in terms of a suppression of T_(c) due to impurities as given
by the Abrikosov-Gorkov[31] relation, which holds for both s- and d-wave
superconductors.[8] Therefore the large maximum T_(c) of sample D can be
linked to a small impurity concentration and, according to d-wave theory
with resonant scattering described above, to a small crossover
temperature T*. As the linear term has been observed in the
experimentally accessible range above 17 K, T* at best is below 17 K. On
the other hand, the reduced T_(c) maxima of the other batches indicate
an increased crossover temperature T* which can explain the observed
quadratic temperature dependence of λ_(ab)(T). Within this picture it is
striking that D, like the others, shows the T_(c) maximum. This
indicates that this maximum indeed is an intrinsic property of the
superconducting state and not an artifact of, e.g., impurities
introduced by doping. The microscopic origin of the resonant scattering
in HTSC’s is not yet known, as was pointed out by the authors of Ref.
[8].

In conclusion, we have shown that for the highly anisotropic
superconductor Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) the penetration depth λ_(ab)(T) can
be determined from the reversible magnetization. High sensitivity torque
magnetometry allows the measurement of both the temperature dependence
of λ_(ab)(T) with high resolution and its absolute value with high
accuracy. Because T_(c) and the penetration depth depend sensitively on
the cation and oxygen stoichiometry, the comparison of experimental data
requires care. A linear temperature dependence of λ_(ab)(T) at low
temperatures is observed in conjunction with a high maximum T_(c). It is
noticeable that the linear temperature dependence remains unchanged upon
oxygen doping. Samples with significantly reduced T_(c) show a quadratic
temperature dependence. These results are consistent with a
d_(x² − y²)-wave model with resonant impurity scattering.

The authors wish to thank D. Einzel, G. Hechtfischer, C. Reimann, B.
Schey, K. Schlenga, and W. Walkenhorst for valuable discussions. Partial
financial support by the Bayerische Forschungsstiftung via the FORSUPRA
consortium is gratefully acknowledged.

## References

* [1] Y. J. Uemura _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317 (1989);
**66**, 2665 (1991). * [2] M. Weber _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 13
022 (1993). * [3] M. Daumling and G. V. Chandrasekhar, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 6422 (1992). * [4] B. Muhlschlegel, Z. Phys. **155**, 313
(1959). * [5] J. Annett, N. Goldenfeld, and S. R. Renn, Phys. Rev. B
**43**, 2778 (1991). * [6] F. Gross, B. S. Chandrasekhar, D. Einzel, K.
Andres, P. J. Hirschfeld, H. R. Ott, J. Beuers, Z. Fisk, and J. L.
Smith, Z. Phys. B **64**, 175 (1986). * [7] P. Arberg, M. Mansor, and J.
P. Carbotte, Solid State Commun. **86**, 671 (1993). * [8] P. J.
Hirschfeld and N. Goldenfeld, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 4219 (1993). * [9] O.
M. Froehlich, H. Schulze, R. Gross, A. Beck, and L. Alff, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 13 894 (1994); J. E. Sonier _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**,
744 (1994); W. N. Hardy, D. A. Bonn, D. C. Morgan, R. Liang, and K.
Zhang, _ibid._**70**, 3999 (1993). * [10] M. R. Beasley, Physica C
**209**, 43 (1993); Z. Ma _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 781
(1993). * [11] D. Achkar, M. Poirier, D. A. Bonn, R. Liang, and W. N.
Hardy, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 13 184 (1993). * [12] S. M. Anlage _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **44**, 9764 (1991); N. Klein _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**71**, 3355 (1993). * [13] A. Maeda, T. Shibauchi, N. Kondo, K.
Uchinokura, and M. Kobayashi, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 234 (1992). * [14]
F. Steinmeyer, R. Kleiner, P. Muller, H. Muller, and K. Winzer,
Europhys. Lett. **25**, 459 (1994). * [15] P. H. Kes _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **67**, 2383 (1991). * [16] W. E. Pickett, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**61**, 433 (1989); A. I. Beskrovnyi _et al._, Physica C **166**, 79
(1990). * [17] V. G. Kogan, M. M. Fang, and S. Mitra, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 11 958 (1988). * [18] Z. Hao and J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**, 2371 (1991). * [19] D. Feinberg, Physica C **194**, 126
(1992). * [20] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [21] B. Pumpin _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**42**, 8019 (1990). * [22] F. X. Regi, J. Schneck, H. Savary, C.
Daguet, and F. Huet, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. **1**, 1190 (1993).

Figure 5: Penetration depth vs temperature at low temperatures. Samples
A, B, and C show a parabolic dependence (a) whereas sample D shows a
linear behavior (b).

* (23) M. Runde _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 7375 (1992). * (24) J. H.
Cho, Z. Hao, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 8679 (1992). *
(25) V. G. Kogan, M. Ledvij, A. Y. Simonov, J. H. Cho, and D. C.
Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1870 (1993). * (26) T. Staufer, R.
Nemetschek, R. Hackl, P. Muller, and H. Veith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**,
1069 (1992). * (27) R. Kleiner, F. Steinmeyer, G. Kunkel, and P. Muller,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2394 (1992). * (28) M. Boekholt, M. Hoffmann,
and G. Guntherodt, Physica C **175**, 127 (1991). * (29) C. Allgeier and
J. S. Schilling, Physica C **168**, 499 (1990); W. A. Groen, D. M. de
Leeuw, and L. F. Feiner, _ibid._**165**, 55 (1990). * (30) B. S.
Chandrasekhar and D. Einzel, Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) **2**, 535 (1993). *
(31) A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**,
1781 (1960) [Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243 (1960)].
