# Superconducting properties of filled skutterudite La0.8Rh4P12

M. Imai,^(1, •) M. Akaishi,¹ E. H. Sadki,^(1, †) T. Aoyagi,¹ T. Kimura,¹
I. Shirotani

¹National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba,
Ibaraki 305-0047, Japan

²Muroran Institute for Technology, 27-1 Mizumoto, Muroran, Hokkaido
050-8585, Japan

20 February 20072007; published 31 May 2007

###### Abstract

The superconducting properties of filled skutterudite La0.8Rh4P12
synthesized at 9.4 GPa and 1473 K using a belt-type apparatus were
investigated by measuring the magnetization, electrical resistivity, and
specific heat. Filled skutterudite La0.3Rh4P12 is a type-II
superconducting material with a critical temperature for the
superconducting transition, T_(C), of 14.9 K. The upper critical field
H_(C)(2) and Ginzburg-Landau coherent length ξ(0) were determined to be
167(1) kOe and 4.41(1) nm, respectively. The electronic heat-capacity
coefficient g_(n) and the Debye temperature Θ_(D) were 25.1(8) mJ/mol K2
and 459(12) K, respectively. Using T_(C) and Θ_(D), the electron-phonon
coupling constant l was estimated to be approximately 0.7, suggesting
that La0.8Rh4P12 is an intermediately coupled superconducting material.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.75.184535 PACS number(s): 74.70.Dd, 74.25.Fy,
74.25.Ha, 74.25.Op + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

Filled skutterudites, with a general chemical formula of _MT__A_X₁₂
(where M, T, and X are rare-earth and alkaline-earth metals, transition
metals, and pnictides, respectively), show a variety of physical
properties, such as superconductivity,1 semiconductors,2
ferromagnetism,1 and antiferromagnetism,3 when the combinations of M, T,
and X are changed. So far, 14 filled skutterudites have been reported as
superconducting materials.14-15 Among them, La_(x)Rh_(x)P12, which was
reported by Shirotani _et al._ in 2005, has the highest critical
temperature for the superconducting transition, T_(C) (17 K).15 Details
of the superconducting properties of La_(x)Rh_(x)P12, however, have not
been reported.

Footnote 15: 1 netic field, which demonstrates that La0.84Rh4P12 is a
type-II superconductor. A lower critical field H_(C1) determined from
the initial deviation from linearity was approximately 70 Oe at 2 K. The
temperature dependence of H_(C1) is being investigated in detail.

Figure 3 is a plot of the electrical resistivity ρ versus the
temperature. The sample has a rectangular parallelepiped shape 2.45 mm
in length, 0.91 mm in width, and 0.43 mm in thickness. The value of ρ is
3.173 x 10⁻⁴Ω cm at 15.3 K and 5.482 x 10⁻⁴Ω cm at 300 K. The residual
resistivity ratio, ρ_(300 K)/ρ_(15.3 K), is 1.75. ρ shows a small
decrease at 15.2 K and a pronounced decrease at 14.5 K. The width of the
transition ΔT (90

Figure 4 is a magnetic field-temperature diagram deduced from the
electrical resistivity measurements. The circles show T_(Cmid), and the
vertical bars show T_(Ccon) and T_(Ccomp). We determined dH/dT and
T_(Ccomp) to be −12.0(2) kOe/K and 14.0 K from a linear fitting of the
H-T_(Ccon) plot (broken line), respectively. The inset shows a reduced
magnetic field h^(*) as a function of the reduced temperature t^(*),
where h^(*) =H/(dH/dT)T_(C) and t^(*) =T_(Con)/T_(C). The broken line
shows a linear fitting of h^(*) against t^(*). The dashed-dotted and
dotted lines show h^(*) calculated from the same h^(*) calculated from
the same t^(*) dependence and deviates from the calculated curve when
t^(*) is lower than approximately 0.6 for h^(*) in the clean limit and
approximately 0.7 for that in the dirty limit. We, therefore, determined
H_(C2)(0) to be 167(1) kOe from linear fitting. This value of H_(C2)(0)
is approximately two-thirds of the Pauli limiting field H_(P) (258 kOe),
defined as H_(P) =18.4T_(C) (kOe),[19, 20] which indicates an absence of
Pauli lim

Figure 3: Electrical resistivity as a function of the temperature. The
inset is the electrical resistivity in various magnetic fields from 0 to
90 kOe in steps of 10 kOe (right to left) as a function of the
temperature. The symbols T_(Con), T_(Cmid), and T_(Ccomp) in the figure
represent the temperature in which the value of ρ reaches 90

Figure 2: Magnetization M in an applied magnetic field of 20 Oe as a
function of the temperature. The left inset shows an expanded view of
the magnetization near T_(C). The right inset is the magnetization at 10
K as a function of the magnetic field.

iting in La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂. The Ginzburg-Landau coherent length ξ(0) was
determined to be 4.44(1) nm using the formula
$H_{C2}(0) = \Uplambda_{0}/2\pi\xi(0)^{2}$, where $\Uplambda_{0}$ is the
flux quantum.[21] The electron mean free path l was estimated to be 7.8
x 10⁻²[S_(F)]⁻¹ nm from the equation l = 1.27 x
10⁴[ρ(n^(2/3)S/S_(F))]⁻¹, where r, n, S, and S_(F) are the resistivity
at 15.3 K (in Ω cm), the conduction electron density (in cm⁻³), the
Fermi surface (in cm⁻²), and the Fermi surface of an electron gas of
density n, respectively.[22] We calculated n to be 2.568 x 10²³ cm⁻³
from the density, the chemical compositions, and the number of valence
electrons of La, Rh, and P, i.e., 3, 9, and 5, respectively. Since the
values of _S__f__F_ are 0.35 for Nb₃Sn and 0.5 for V₃Si,[22] we assumed
the value of _S__f__F_ in La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ to be between 0.1 and 1.0,
leading to a value of l between 0.078 and 0.78 nm. This value of l is
smaller than ξ(0), which indicates that the sample is a dirty material.

Figure 5 shows the specific heat divided by the temperature _C/T_
measured at magnetic fields (field cooling) of 0 and 90 kOe as a
function of the squared temperature T2. An anomaly attributed to the
superconducting transition was observed at 14.2 K for 0 kOe and 6.8 K
for 90 kOe, which is consistent with the resistivity data. The obtained
parameters g_(m), b, and d were 25.1(8) mJ/mol K² 0.338(9) mJ/mol K⁴,
and 1.7(2) x 10⁻⁴ mJ/mol K⁶ respectively, by fitting the _C/T_ data at
90 kOe and temperatures ranging from 6.8 to 19.9 K with
$\gamma_{\rm{z}} + \beta T^{2} + \delta T^{4}$. The Debye temperature,
$\Uplambda_{D}$, was calculated to be 459(12) K from the value of b. We
calculated the electronic specific heat of the superconducting state
_C_es by subtracting the phonon specific heat _C_ph = βT³ + δT⁶ from
_C_(0 kOe). After extrapolating _C_es(0 kOe) to 0 K, the difference in
entropy between the normal and superconducting states, _S_es - _S_em,
was calculated by integrating $(C_{\rm{cs}} - \gamma_{\rm{z}})/T$ from
15 K to the lower temperatures, as shown in the inset. The entropy
difference goes to zero when the temperature goes to zero, which
confirms the thermodynamic consistency of the fitting. The value of
g_(m) in the dirty limit also can be estimated from the values of
_d__H__C_2/_dT_ and r using the following relation:
$-(dH_{C2}/dT) = 4.48 \times 10^{4}\gamma_{\rm{z}}\rho$, where the units
of _d__H__C_2/_dT_, g_(m), and r are Oe K⁻¹ erg cm⁻³ K⁻², and O cm,
respectively.[22] The value of g_(n) obtained from the above relation is
13.6 mJ/mol K² when the values of r at 15.3 K (3.173 x 10⁻⁴ O cm) and
_dH_/_dT_ (12.0 kOe K⁻¹) are used. The values of g_(n) from the
specific-heat measurements are 1.8 times larger than those obtained from
_dH__C_2/_dT_ and r. One of the plausible explanations for this
discrepancy is impurity phases contained in the sample. The existence of
impurity phases is expected to change the value of r more sensitively
than that of C. Since the oxide LaP3O2 is contained in the sample, the r
of the sample is anticipated to be larger than the r of La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂
itself. As a result, g_(n) is obtained from _dH__C_2/_dT_, and r becomes
smaller than that obtained by specific-heat measurements because g_(n)
is in inverse proportion to r in the equation.

In Fig. 6, the difference in _C/T_ between 0 and 90 kOe, [C(0 kOe) -
C(90 kOe)]/_T_, is shown as a function of the temperature. The dashed
line represents an entropy-conserving construction assuming that
_C_es=_A_ exp(-_b/k__B_T_), where k_(B) is Boltzmann’s constant. The
transition to the superconducting state with an entropy-conserving
construction gives ΔC(T_(C))/T_(C)=22.9(6) mJ/mol K² and _T__C_=12.9 K.
The ratio of the specific-heat jump at T_(C) to g_(m), _C_(_T_)/_g__T_,
is calculated to be 0.91, which is smaller than the value of the BCS
theory (1.43).[21] The electron-phonon coupling constant l was
calculated to be approximately 0.7 from the semiempirical formula
proposed by McMillan:
$\lambda = [1.04 + \mu^{*}\ln(\Uplambda_{D}/1.45T_{C})\rbrack/[(1 -0.62\mu^{*})\ln(\Uplambda_{D}/1.45T_{C}) - 1.04$],[23]
where _m_’ = 0.1, $\Uplambda_{D}$ =459 K, and _T__C_=12.9 K, which
suggests that La_(0.82)Rh_(3.9)P_(12.1) is an intermediately coupled
superconductor.

Table 1 contains a list of the superconducting parameters of
La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ together with those of LaRu₄P₁₂, LaFe₄P₁₂, and YFe₄P₁₂,
which have relatively high T_(C) values among the ternary filled
skutterudite-type phosphides and reported superconducting parameters.[6,
10, 44] The electronic density of states _N_(0) was calculated from the
relation g_(n)

Figure 5: Specific heat divided by the temperature _C/T_ at 0 and 90 kOe
as a function of the squared temperature. The inset shows the difference
in entropy between the normal and superconducting states, _S_es - _S_em
as a function of the temperature.

Figure 6: Specific-heat difference between 90 and 0 kOe divided by the
temperature [C(90 kOe) - C(0 kOe)]/_T_ as a function of the temperature.

π²n_(atom)N₀k_(B)²N(0)(1 + λ)/3, where n_(atom) is the number of atoms
per formula unit and N₀ is Avogadro’s number.[21] The value of λ in the
three materials was calculated using the above-mentioned equation.
La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ has a higher H_(C2) than LaRu₄P₁₂, which is consistent
with the higher T_(C) of La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ because H_(C2) is proportional
to T_(C).[19] It is worth noting that La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ has the largest λ
among the four skutterudites. The largest λ in La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ plausibly
explains why La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ has the highest T_(C) among the four. The
McMillan equation modified by Allen and Dynes is known to be a better
approximation and to be applicable to larger values of λ.[25] In order
to use the modified McMillan equation, information on the phonon density
of states (a logarithmic average frequency of phonon) is required, but
no information is available. The original McMillan equation is known to
be reliable when λ < 1, and the difference between the original and
modified equations is approximately 10

In summary, La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ was synthesized at 9.4 GPa and 1473 K using a
belt-type apparatus. The measurements of the electrical resistivity,
magnetization, and specific heat revealed that La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ is an
intermediately coupled type-II superconducting material with a T_(C) of
14.9 K and H_(C2) of 167(1) kOe. A comparison of superconducting
parameters between La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ and the other three skutterudites
suggests that the relatively large λ in La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ is a plausible
explanation for the fact that La_(0.8)Rh₄P₁₂ has the highest T_(C) among
the ternary filled skutterudite-type phosphides.

The authors thank M. Takagi and T. Tanaka of NIMS for preparing the EPMA
samples. In addition, the authors are grateful to H. Kitazawa, I.
Nakatani, and H. Mamiya of NIMS for allowing the use of the
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer and PPMS.
Thanks are due to K. Matsuhira of the Kyushu Institute for Technology
for valuable advice on specific-heat data analysis. The authors also
thank M. Arai of NIMS for the calculation of the reduced temperature
dependence of a reduced critical field. This work was supported in part
by a Grant-in-Aid for scientific research from the Ministry of
Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology of Japan.

## References

* [9] Corresponding author. FAX: +81-29-859-2801. Electronic address:
imai.motoharu@nims.go.jp * [10] Present address: Physics Department,
Harvard University, 17 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. * [11]
G. P. Meisner, Physica B & C **108**, 763 (1981). * [12] M. S.
Torikachvili _et al._, Proceedings of the 17th International Conference
of Low-Temperature Physics LT-17, edited by U. Eckern _et al._
(Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1984), p. 857. * [13] C. Sekine, T. Uchiumi, I.
Shirotani, K. Matsuhira, T. Sakakibara, T. Goto, and T. Yagi, Phys. Rev.
B **62**, 11581 (2000). * [14] L. E. Delong _et al._, Solid State
Commun. **53**, 119 (1985). * [15] I. Shirotani, T. Uchiumi, K. Ohno, C.
Sekine, Y. Nakazawa, K. Kanoda, S. Todo, and T. Yagi, Phys. Rev. B
**56**, 7866 (1997). * [16] T. Uchiumi _et al._, J. Phys. Chem. Solids
**60**, 689 (1999). * [17] I. Shirotani _et al._, Physica B **281&282**,
1021 (2000). * [18] N. Takeda and M. Ishikawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**69**, 868 (2000). * [19] E. D. Bauer, N. A. Frederick, P.-C. Ho, V. S.
Zapf, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 100506(R) (2002). * [20] I.
Shirotani _et al._, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **15**, S2201 (2003). *
[21] H. Kotegawa _et al._, Acta Phys. Pol. B **34**, 1003 (2003). * [22]
K. Kihou _et al._, Mater. Res. Bull. **39**, 317 (2004). * [23] A.
Miyake _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **73**, 2370 (2004). * [24] I.
Shirotani _et al._, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **17**, 4383 (2005). *
[25] I. Shirotani _et al._, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **17**, 7353
(2005). * [26] Y. Kanke _et al._, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **73**, 3268
(2002). * [27] S. Zemni _et al._, J. Solid State Chem. **65**, 1
(1986). * [28] E. Helfand and N. R. Werthamer, Phys. Rev. **147**, 288
(1966). * [29] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). *
[30] B. S. Chandrasekhar, Appl. Phys. Lett. **1**, 7 (1962). * [31] For
example, M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_, 2nd ed.
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996). * [32] T. P. Orlando, E. J. McNiff, S.
Foner, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545 (1979). * [33] M. L.
McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [34] G. P. Meisner _et al._,
Proceedings of the 17th International Conference of Low-Temperature
Physics LT-17, edited by U. Eckern _et al._ (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1984),
p. 711. * [35] P. B. Allen and R. C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 905
(1975).
