Two-gap superconductivity in ZrB₁₂: Temperature dependence of critical
magnetic fields in single crystals

V. A. Gasparov, N. S. Sidorov, and I. I. Zver’kova

Institute of Solid State Physics RAS, 142432 Chernogolovka, Moscow
District, Russia

26 August 2005; revised manuscript received 30 December 2005; published
21 March 2006

###### Abstract

We report the measurements of the temperature dependence of the
resistivity, ρ(_T_), magnetic penetration depth, λ(_T_), the lower,
H_(c1)(_T_), and upper, H_(c2)(_T_), critical magnetic fields, for
single crystals of dodecaboride ZrB₁₂, diboride ZrB₂, and thin films of
diboride MgB₂. We observe a number of deviations from conventional
behavior in these materials. Although ZrB₁₂ behaves like a simple metal
in the normal state, the resistive Debye temperature, 300 K, is three
times smaller relative to that (800−1200 K) calculated from the specific
heat, C(_T_), data. We observe predominantly quadratic temperature
behavior of resistivity in ZrB₁₂ below 25 K and in ZrB₂ below 100 K,
indicating the possible importance of the electron-electron interaction
in these borides. Superfluid density of ZrB₁₂ displays unconventional
temperature dependence with pronounced shoulder at _T_/_T__(c) equal to
0.65. Contrary to conventional theories we found a linear temperature
dependence of H_(c2)(_T_) for ZrB₁₂ from _T__(c) down to 0.35 K. We
suggest that both λ(_T_) and H_(c2)(_T_) dependencies in ZrB₁₂ can be
explained by a two band BCS model with different superconducting gap and
T_(c).

2006 10.1103/PhysRevB.73.094510 PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad, 74.25.Nf,
72.15.Gd, 74.25.Ha

## I Introduction

The recent discovery of superconductivity in magnesium diboride [1] has
initiated a substantial interest in potential high temperature
superconducting transition in other borides. [2] Yet, only
nonstoichiometric boride compounds (MoB_(2.5), NbB_(2.5), Mo₂B, W₂B,
BeB_(2.75)) demonstrate such transition. [3, 4, 5, 6] The absence of
superconducting transition in stoichiometric borides is clearly not in
line with the old idea about superconductivity in metallic hydrogen [7]
recently applied by Kortus _et al._[8] to explain superconductivity in
MgB₂. A potential clue to this contradiction my lay not in the small
mass of the boron atoms but rather in crystal structure of these boron
compounds, in particular in their cluster structure. Crystal structure
clearly plays an important role in superconductivity. Although it is
widely accepted that the layered structure is crucial for high-_T__(c)
superconductivity, one can argue that clusters of light atoms are
important for high-_T__(c) as well. In particular, there are a number of
rather high-_T__(c) superconductors among three-dimensional (3D) cluster
compounds. Those are alkali metal doped C₆₀ compounds (fulerides)
_Me_₅C₆₀ (_Me_= K, Na, Rb, Cs) with the highest _T__(c) up to 33 K for
RbCs₂C₆₀. [9, 10] It is also known that boron atoms form clusters. These
are octahedral B₆ clusters in β-richmondehedral boron, and cubocathadral
B₁₂ clusters in αFeB₁₂.

The quest for superconductivity in these cluster compounds has a long
history. Several superconducting cubic hexaborides, _Me_B₆, and
dodecaborides, _Me_B₁₂, have been discovered by Matthias _et al._ back
in late 1960’s [11] (_Me_=Sc, Y, Zr, La, Lu, Th). Many other cluster
borides (_Me_=Ce, Pr, Nd, Eu, Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm) were found to be
ferromagnetic or antiferromagnetic. [11, 12] It was suggested [3] that
the superconductivity in YB₆ and ZrB₁₂ (_T__(c) of 6.5-7.1 and 6.03 K,
respectively [3]) is exactly due to the effect of a cluster of light
boron atoms. At the same time, a much smaller isotope effect on T_(c)
for boron in comparison with Zr isotopic substitution suggests that the
boron in ZrB₁₂ serves as inert background for the Zr-driven
superconductivity. [13, 14] Clearly a systematic study of ZrB₁₂ is
needed to address the question of superconductivity in this compound.

Superconductivity in ZrB₁₂-based compounds was discovered a while ago,
[11] however, there has been little and controversial effort devoted to
the study of basic superconducting and the electron transport properties
of these compounds. In our recent study of the electron transport and
superconducting properties of polycrystalline ZrB₁₂, [15, 16, 17, 18] we
demonstrated that this compound behaves like a normal metal with the
usual Bloch-Gruneisen dependence of ρ(_T_) but with rather low resistive
Debye temperature (_T__(R)=280 K). The latter is almost three times
smaller than Debye temperature obtained from specific heat C(_T_) data.
[19] We observed linear temperature dependence of λ(_T_) below T_(c)/2
which could be evidence of _d_-wave pairing in this compound.
Furthermore, contrary to conventional theories, we found a linear
temperature dependence of _H__(c2)(_T_). Recently the band structure
calculations of ZrB₁₂ (Ref. [20]) have been also reported. It was
concluded that the band structure of ZrB₁₂ is composed of one open and
two closed Fermi surface sheets.

Our data contradict the report of Daghero _et al._[21] dealing with the
point-contact spectroscopy (PCS) of single crystals of ZrB₁₂ at
temperatures close to _T__(c). In Daghero’s report it was concluded that
ZrB₁₂ is a strong coupling _s_-wave superconductor, with
2D(0)/_kBTc_=4.7. Tsindlekht _et al._[22] came to a similar conclusion
from tunneling and magnetic characterization of ZrB₁₂ single crystals at
the temperatures also very close to _T__(c) (4.5-6 K). Lortz _et
al._[19] and Wang _et al._[23] reported C(_T_), ρ(_T_), magnetic
susceptibility, and thermal expansion measurements of ZrB₁₂ samples
prepared by one of us (V.A.G.) and concluded that it is a single gap
marginal BCS superconductor which undergoes transition from a type-I
superconductor near _T__(c) to a type-II superconductor below 4.6 K with
2D(0)/_kBTc_=3.7, the value that is lower than that obtained from PCS
(4.7) [21] and scanning tunneling microscopy data. [22] A large
difference in H_(c2) characteristics reported in the above-mentioned
papers was discussed in terms of surface superconductivity. Most of the
features of MgB₂ discovered so far can be explained by a two band
superconductivity model. [24] We believe that a test of the predictions
of this model for ZrB₁₂ may explain observed controversy of published
data. Knowledge of the electron transport and superconducting properties
in this cluster compound is crucial for understanding these conflicting
results.

This has been the motivation for current systematic study of the
temperature dependencies of ρ(T), λ(T), lower H_(c1)(T), and upper
H_(c2)(T), critical magnetic fields in single crystals of ZrB₁₂. In this
paper, we confirm unusual superconducting properties of ZrB₁₂ observed
in Refs. [15, 16, 17, 18] and argue that the published results can be
reconciled by two-band superconductivity. Comparative data from ZrB₂
single crystals and thin films of MgB₂ are also presented.

The structure of this paper is as follows. In Sec. II we report on the
samples details and experimental techniques. Section III describes the
electron transport in these compounds and Sec. IV describes the
temperature dependence of λ(T) in ZrB₁₂ samples and MgB₂ thin films. The
data on H_(c1)(T) and H_(c2)(T) are presented in Sec. V. Section VI
contains our conclusions.

## II Experimental setup

Under ambient conditions, dodecaboride ZrB₁₂ crystallizes in the fcc
structure of the UB₁₂ type (space group Fm3m, a = 0.74075 nm, [25, 26]
see Fig. 1). In this structure, the Zr atoms are located at interstitial
openings among the close-packed B₁₂ clusters. In contrast, ZrB₂ shows a
phase consisting of a two-dimensional graphitelike monolayer of boron
atoms with a honeycomb lattice structure and the lattice parameters a =
0.30815 nm and c = 0.35191 nm (space group P6/mmm), intercalated with a
Zr monolayer. [2]

Our ZrB₁₂ and ZrB₂ single crystals were grown using a floating-zone
method [17, 18, 25] similar to Ref. [26]. The obtained single crystal
ingots had a typical diameter of about 5 to 6 mm and a length of 40 mm.
Measured specific weight of the ZrB₁₂ rod was 3.60 g/cm³, in a good
agreement with the theoretical density. The cell parameter of ZrB₁₂, a =
0.74072± 0.00005 nm, is very close to the published values. [26] To
assure good quality of our samples we performed the metallographic and
x-ray investigations of as-grown ingots. We discovered that most parts
of the ZrB₁₂ ingot contained a needlelike phase of nonsuperconducting
ZrB₂ (see Fig. 2). We believe that ZrB₂ needles are due to preparation
of ZrB₁₂ single crystals from a mixture of a certain amount of ZrB₂ and
an excess of boron. [18, 25] Therefore special care has been taken to
cut the samples from ZrB₂ phase-free parts.

For this study, two highly crystalline, superconducting films of MgB₂
were grown on an r-plane sapphire substrate in a two-step process. [27]
Deposition of boron precursor films via electron-beam evaporation was
followed by _ex situ_ post-annealing at 890 ^(∘)C in the presence of
bulk MgB₂ and Mg vapor. We investigated films of 500 and 700 nm
thickness, with corresponding T_(c0)’s of 38 and 39.2 K, respectively.
The details of the preparation technique are described elsewhere. [27]

We used the spark erosion technique to cut the single crystal ingots
into rectangular ⟨100⟩ oriented bars of about 0.5× 0.5× 8 mm³. The
samples were lapped with diamond paste and etched in boiled nitrogen
acid to remove any damage induced by lapping deteriorated surface
layers. A standard four-probe ac (9 Hz) technique was used for
resistance measurements. We used _Epotek H20E_ silver epoxy for
electrical contacts. Because the sample has a shape of a long
rectangular bar its demagnetization factor is nearly zero. A
well-defined geometry of the samples provided for the precise ρ(T) and
superconducting properties measurements. Temperature was measured with
platinum (PT-103) and carbon glass (CGR-1-500) sensors. The measurements
were performed in the liquid helium variable temperature cryostat in the
temperature range between 1.3 and 350 K. Magnetic measurements of
ρ(T, H) and λ(T, H) were carried out using a superconducting coil in
applied fields of up to 6 T down to 1.3 K. Additional dc and ac ρ(H)
measurements were performed in the National High Magnetic Field
Laboratory in Tallahassee, Florida (NHMFL) at temperatures down to 0.35
K. The dc magnetic field was applied in the direction of the current
flow. The critical temperature of the ZrB₁₂ samples, measured by ac
susceptibility and ρ(T), was found to be T_(c0)=6.0 K.

Figure 2: Etching pattern of a ZrB₁₂ single crystal cross section in the
(100) plane from the same parts of ingot as in Refs. [19] and [21, 22].
The needlelike long grains are ZrB₂ phase, while the small black lines
correspond to etching pits from small angle boundaries.

Figure 1: Lattice structure of dodecaboride ZrB₁₂. For clarity B₁₂
clusters are shown only on the upper face of the lattice.

We used the radio frequency LC technique [28] to measure λ(T) of ZrB₁₂
samples. This technique employs a rectangular solenoid coil into which
the sample is placed. The coil is a part of the LC circuit driven by a
marginal oscillator operating at 2−10 MHz, or by the impedance meter
(VM-508 TESLA 2−50 MHz). Changes in λ(T) of the sample lead to the
change of the coil’s inductance that in turn results in the change of
the resonance frequency of the LC circuit. The connection between
parameters of the circuit and λ(T) is described by following equation:

$$\lambda(T)-\lambda(0)=\delta\frac{f^{-2}(T)-f^{-2}(0)}{f^{-2}(T_{c})-f^{-2}(0)}.$$
(1)

Here δ=0.5(c²ρ/2 πω)^(1/2) is the imaginary part of the skin depth above
T_(c), [29] which was determined from the ρ(T) measurements close to
T_(c), f(T) is the resonance frequency of the circuit at arbitrary
temperature T, and f(T_(c)) and f(0) are the resonance frequency of the
circuit at the superconducting transition and at zero temperature,
respectively.

The λ(T) dependence in thin MgB₂ films was investigated employing a
single coil mutual inductance technique. This technique, originally
proposed in Ref. [30] and improved in Ref. [31], takes advantage of the
well-known two-coil geometry. It was successfully used for the
observation of the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless vortex-antivortex
unbinding transition in ultrathin YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) films [32] as well as
for study of the λ(T) dependence on MgB₂ films. [33] In this
radio-frequency technique one measures the temperature dependence of the
complex impedance of the LC circuit formed with a one-layer pancake coil
located in the proximity (≈0.1 mm) of the film. Both sample and coil are
in a vacuum, but the coil holder is thermally connected with helium
bath, while the sample holder is isolated and may be heated. During the
experiment the coil was kept at 2.5 K, whereas the sample temperature
has been varied from 2.5 up to 100 K. Such design allows us to eliminate
possible effects in temperature changes in L and C on the measurements.

The complex mutual inductance M between the coil and the film can be
obtained through

$$\mathrm{Re}\;M(T)=L_{0}\Bigg{(}\frac{f_{0}^{2}}{f^{2}(T)}-1\Bigg{)},$$
(2)

$$\mathrm{Im}\;M(T)=\frac{1}{[2\,\pi f(T)]^{3}C^{2}}\Bigg{[}\frac{1}{Z(T)}-\frac {1}{Z_{0}(T)}\cdot\frac{f_{0}^{2}(T)}{f_{0}^{2}}\Bigg{]}.$$
(3)

Here L, Z(T), f(T), L₀, Z(0), and f₀ are the inductance, the real part
of impedance, and the resonant frequency of the circuit with and without
the sample, respectively. In the London regime, where the high frequency
losses are negligible, one can introduce Δ Re M(T)–the difference
between temperature dependant real part of M of the coil with the
sample, Re M(T), and that of the coil at T₀, Re M(T₀). This difference
is a function of the London penetration depth λ(T):

$$\Delta\;\mathrm{Re}\;M(T)=\pi\mu_{0}\Bigg{\uparrow}_{0}^{\infty}\frac{M(q)dq} {1+2q\lambda\;\mathrm{coth}\Bigg{(}\frac{d}{\lambda}\Bigg{)}},$$
(4)

where M(q) plays the role of mutual inductance at a given wave number q
in the film plane and depends on the sample-coil distance, d is the
sample thickness (additional details can be found in Ref. [31]). A
change in Δ Re M(T) is detected as a change of resonant frequency f(T)
of the oscillating signal through Eq. (2). This change when put into Eq.
(4) yields temperature dependent London penetration depth λ(T). Thanks
to Eq. (4), we can measure the λ(T) of superconducting film by measuring
the variation Δ Re M(T) of coil impedance and convert them into λ(T).

## III Electron Transport

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of ρ(T) of ZrB₁₂ and ZrB₂
single crystal samples. To emphasize the variation of ρ(T) in a
superconductive state, we plot these data in the inset. The transition
temperature (T_(c0)=6.0 K) is consistent with the previously reported
values for ZrB₁₂ (6.03 K) [11, 13] and is larger than that of ZrB₂
polycrystalline samples (5.5 K). [2] The ZrB₁₂ samples demonstrate a
remarkably narrow transition with ΔT=0.04 K. We believe that such a
narrow transition is an indicator of the good quality of our samples.

Figure 3 does not show any hints of the superconducting transition in
ZrB₂ single crystals down to 1.3 K, [18] even though superconductivity
was observed before at 5.5 K in polycrystalline samples. [2] It was
recently suggested [34] that this apparent contradiction could be
associated with nonstoichiometry in the zirconium sublattice. Based on
the electron structure calculation it was suggested that the Fermi level
in ZrB₂ is located in the pseudogap. [34] The presence of Zr defects in
Zr_(0.75)B₂ leads to the appearance of a very intense peak in the
density of states in the vicinity of the pseudogap and subsequent
superconductivity. We strongly believe that

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of ρ(T) for ZrB₁₂
(circles) and ZrB₂ (squares) single crystal samples. The solid lines
represent BG fits to the experimental data by Eq. (5). The dashed line
is t³ BG fit below 170 K with T_(R)=283 K as in Ref. [21].

observation of superconductivity at 5.5 K in polycrystalline samples of
ZrB₂ was due to nonstoichiometry of our samples. It is likely that
recent observations of superconductivity in nonstoichiometric
Nb_(1 − x)B₂ compounds [4, 5] as well as in other nonstoichiometric
borides [3, 6] have the same origin.

As we can see from Fig. 3, despite the fact that ZrB₁₂ contains mostly
boron, its room temperature ρ(T) is only twice as large as that of
single crystal samples of ZrB₂. The ρ(T) of ZrB₁₂ is linear above 90 K
with the slope markedly steeper than in ZrB₂, with rather low residual
resistivity ratio $\rho_{300~{}\rm K}/\rho_{6~{}\rm K}\approx$ 10. One
can predict a nearly isotropic ρ(T) dependence for fcc ZrB₁₂, which can
be described by the Bloch-Gruneisen (BG) equation of the electron-phonon
(_e-p_) scattering rate: [35]

$$\rho(t)-\rho(0)=4\rho_{1}t^{5}\!\!\int_{0}^{1t}\frac{x^{5}e^{*}dx}{(e^{*}-1)^{ 2}}=4\rho_{1}t^{5}J_{5}(1/t).$$
(5)

Here, ρ(0) is the residual resistivity, ρ₁=dρ(T)/dt is the slope of ρ(T)
at high T  >  T_(R), t  =  T/T_(R), T_(R) is the resistive Debye
temperature, and J₅(1/t) is the Debye integral.

It is clear from Fig. 3 that the BG model nicely describes the ρ(T)
dependence of both borides, indicating the importance of _e-p_
interaction. It is remarkable that this description works well with
constant T_(R)=300 K, which is very close to T_(R)=280 K observed on
polycrystalline samples. [16] Clearly, ZrB₂ (T_(R)=700 K) and ZrB₁₂ have
very different ρ(T) dependence due to different T_(R). At the same time
the phonon Debye temperature, T_(D), for ZrB₁₂ calculated from C(T) on
rather large samples (4.7 x 4.8 x 2.9 mm³) prepared by one of us
(V.A.G.) (without metallographic study), [19, 23] is three times higher.
Furthermore, T_(D) increases from 800 to 1200 K as temperature rises
from T_(c) up to room temperature. We believe that this inconsistency of
T_(R) and T_(D) can be explained by limitation of T_(R) by a cutoff
phonon wave vector q =  k_(B)T/ℏs. The latter is limited by the Fermi
surface (FS) diameter 2k_(F) (Ref. [36]) rather than the highest phonon
frequency in the phonon spectrum. [18] Besides some problems may arise
in Refs. [19] and [23] due to use of ZrB₂ phase rich samples as in Fig.
2 (see below).

Actually, ρ(T) of ZrB₁₂ and ZrB₂, samples deviates from the BG model at
low temperatures. [18] We have reported for ZrB₁₂, ZrB₂, and MgB₂ that
such deviation is consistent with a sum of electron-electron (_e-e_),
aT², and _e-p_, bT⁵, contributions to the low-Tρ(T) data. The
coefficient b =  497.6ρ₁/T_(R)⁵ in this plot gives another measure of
T_(R) from low-Tρ(T) data. We found this T_(R) in a good agreement with
that extracted from full-T BG fit for both ZrB₂ and ZrB₁₂ samples.
Therefore the data extracted from this two-term fit are self-consistent
with the full Eq. (5) fit. We would like to stress that this observation
is only possible in the approximation of constant T_(R), which is in
contradiction with specific heat data. [19] Notice also that the _e-p_
contribution to resistivity ρ(T) can be described through [37]

ρ_(cp)(T) ∼ ∫₀^(1t)α²(k, ω)F(ω)Φ(ε, ω)dω,
(6)

where α²(k, ω)F(ω) is the effective Eliashberg density of states of the
phonons, that is _e-p_ coupling function α²(k, ω) multiplied by the
phonon density of states F(ω) with energy ℏω. [37] The α²(k, ω) is
proportional to the matrix element of _e-p_ coupling averaged over
phonon polarization, but only longitudinal phonons are responsible for
_e-p_ scattering for spherical FS. At the same time, the phonon specific
heat, C(T), can be expressed as

C_(ph) = 3 R ∫₀^(1t/t)F(ω)Φ₁(ω)dω.
(7)

Here Φ(ε, ω) and Φ(ω) are the occupation factors for _e-p_ and phonon
systems, respectively. [37] This means that different phonons are
responsible for _e-p_ρ(T) and C(T). In particular, the transverse
phonons are much less important for _e-p_ scattering whereas both
transverse and longitudinal phonons equally contribute to C(T).

Bordes have rather high T_(D) that depresses the _e-p_ scattering term
may be much more pronounced. Indeed, we find very similar values of
_a_-coefficient for ZrB₁₂ and ZrB₂ samples in the basal plane (a = 22
and 15 pΩ cm K⁻², respectively). [18] It is interesting to note, however
that these values are five times larger than the _e-e_ term for
transition metals [$a_{\rm Mo}$=2.5 pΩ cm K⁻² and $a_{\rm W}$ =1.54 pΩ
cm K⁻² (Ref. [18])]. In general, there are many scattering processes
responsible for the T² term in ρ(T) of metals. This term could be due to
electron-impurity, electron-dislocation scattering, etc., induced
deviation from Mattiessen rule. It is difficult to separate the
contributions of these effects, thus it is presently not clear where
exactly this T² term comes from. [18] Therefore additional experiments
on more pure samples must be performed before a final conclusion about
the origin of the T³ term in borides can be drawn.

As we mentioned in the Introduction of this paper, there is a
contradiction between our description of the ρ(T) and that of Refs. [19]
and [21]. Daghero _et al._ suggested BG fit with t⁵ dependence rather
than t⁵ on the similar single crystals at low T  <  170 K. [21] The fit
assumed model ω² dependence for the α²(k, ω)F(ω) in Eq. (6). Such
assumption yielded a good fit to their data at T  <  170 K with the
T_(R)=283 K similar to our value of 300 K. We would like to stress,
however, that there are strong objections to this modified t³ BG model.
[18] The main problem of this approach is that it completely ignores
intrasheet small angle _e-p_ scattering responsible for T⁵ law and takes
into account only intersect scattering events. No evidence of this model
was observed in transition and non-transition metals. To check the
approach of Daghero’s group we used it for our data. Figure 3 displays
the BG fit with ρ(T) − ρ(0) ∝  r³J₃(1/t) in Eq. (5) at T  <  170 K
(dashed line). It is clear that this fit is far from consistency at
higher T. We believe this is an indication that ρ(T) cannot be fitted by
a modified BG t³ equation in the whole temperature range. We suggest
that a sum of T³ and T⁵ contributions to the low-Tρ(T) may be easily
confused with a T³ law. [18] Notice that our observation of BG T⁵
intraband ρ(T) dependence rather then intersheet T⁵ law is very
important for the given below two-T_(c) model of two-gap
superconductivity for ZrB₁₂. In fact, this model is right in the limit
of zero interband coupling. The two bands coupling converge two T_(c) to
a single one.

Lortz _et al._[19] report temperature dependence of ρ(T) obtained on the
samples cut from ones provided by our group. The ρ(T) is nearly
identical to our data, however, interpretation is different. Lorts _et
al._ fitted ρ(T) with the generalized Bloch-Gruneisen formula using a
decomposition into Einstein modes of α²(k, ω)F(ω). The same approach was
applied to C(T) data and it was concluded that there are similarities
between F(ω) determined from C(T) and α²(k, ω)F(ω) from ρ(T). However
the fit to ρ(T) data was obtained using six fitting parameters for
α_(F)²F_(k) and ρ(0). We believe such fit is not better than a simple
Debye Eq. (5) fit with just two parameters: T_(R) and ρ(0). Furthermore,
it is not clear whether the Einstein model is applicable to ZrB₁₂.
Finally, we note also that only phonons with a phonon wave vector
q=k_(B)T/ℏs<2k_(F) can participate in ρ(T).[36] Thus T_(R) is limited by
the FS diameter 2k_(F) rather than the highest phonon frequency in the
phonon spectrum, which in turn is important for T_(D). Notice also that
unconventional T_(D)(T) dependence observed from C(T) data in Refs. [19]
and [23] may be due to the sample problems (see Fig. 2).

## IV IV. Penetration depth

In the BCS theory the London penetration depth is identical with λ(T)
for specular and diffuse surface scattering and for negligible nonlocal
effects. For a BCS-type superconductor with the conventional s-wave
pairing form, the λ(T) has an exponentially vanishing temperature
dependence below T_(c)/2 (where Δ(T) is almost constant):[38]

$$\lambda(T)=\lambda(0)\left[1+\sqrt{\frac{\pi\Delta(0)}{2k_{B}T}}\exp\!\left( -\frac{\Delta(0)}{k_{B}T}\right)\right]$$
(8)

for clean limit: l>ξ and

$$\lambda(T)=\lambda(0)\sqrt{\frac{1}{\tanh\!\left(\frac{\Delta(0)}{2k_{B}T} \right)}}$$
(9)

for dirty limit: l<ξ.[39] Here Δ(0) is the energy gap and λ(0) is the
penetration depth at zero temperature. Close to T_(c)λ(T) dependence has
a BCS form:[29]

$$\lambda(T)=\frac{\lambda(0)}{\sqrt{2\!\left(1-\frac{T}{T_{c}}\right)}}.$$
(10)

Important problems for λ(T) measurements are (i) determination of basic
superconducting parameter λ(0) and (ii) temperature dependence law, to
see whether s-wave or d-wave pairing forms exist. Both these problems
can be addressed from low-Tλ(T) dependence according to Eqs. (8) and
(9). We used Eq. (1) to extrapolate the resonance frequency f(T) of our
LC circuit down to zero temperature. The inset to Fig. 4 shows
f⁻²(T)∝λ(T)−λ(0) used for determination f(0). We would like to stress
that one can use linear dependence of f⁻²(T) and hence λ(T)−λ(0) below 3
K,[15, 16, 17] due to uncertainty with f(0).

The unconventional d-wave pairing symmetry causes the energy gap to be
suppressed along nodal directions on the FS. This type of pairing should
manifest itself through the linear temperature dependence of λ(T)−λ(0)≈T
at low T. Such a linear T dependence of λ(T) has been used as an
fingerprint of d-wave pairing in cuprates.[40, 41] At the same time the
microwave λ(T) data in fully oxygenated YBCO films show a picture which
is consistent with the two-band s-wave superconductivity.[42] Recently,
it was suggested[43] that a strictly linear T dependence of λ(T) at low
temperatures violates the third law of thermodynamics because it results
in nonvanished entropy in the zero temperature limit. One can argue that
a deviation of the linear T dependence of λ(T) should be observed at
low-T. Indeed, recent experiments on λ(T) in cuprates indicate
deviations from linearity at low-T from current carrying zero energy
surface Andreev bound states.[44] We believe that the question about
linear dependence of λ(T) is still open therefore we use BCS Eqs. (8)
and (9) to fit our data.

The dashed curve in the inset to Fig. 4 is a result of the fit by aid of
BCS Eq. (9) for λ(T) with f(0) and Δ(0) as free parameters. Equation (1)
defines the difference between extrapolated λ(0) at zero temperature and
that at the arbitrary temperature T, λ(T)−λ(0). We would like to stress
that λ(T)−λ(0) data are robust relative to the change of the oscillator
frequency. We observed no change in data when oscillator frequency has
been increased from 2 to 10 MHz. Figure 4 shows how λ(T)−λ(0) changes
with reduced temperature, T/T_(c), at low T for both MgB₂ (squares) and
ZrB₁₂ (circles). Our ZrB₁₂ data do not extend to as low reduced
temperatures as our data for MgB₂. This could lead to somewhat larger
uncertainty in the estimates for the zero temperature resonance
frequency f(0), and hence λ(0)=66 nm and Δ(0) from low-T data for ZrB₁₂.

To address the problem with λ(0) we plot λ(T)−λ(0) data versus BCS
reduced temperature: $1/\sqrt{2(1-T/T_{c})}$ in the region close to
T_(c) (see inset to Fig. 5). The advantage of this procedure is the
insensitivity of such analysis to the choice

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature variation of the λ(T) vs T/T_(c)
for ZrB₁₂ single crystal (circles) and MgB₂ thin film (squares) below
0.55T_(c). Solid curves represent the single gap dirty limit fit [Eq.
(9)] and the dashed line represent the clean limit fit [Eq. (8)] for
MgB₂ and ZrB₁₂. Inset shows f⁻²(T) and a result of fit by Eqs. (1) and
(9).

of f(0) on this temperature scale. The value of T_(c)=5.992 K used in
this data analysis is obtained by getting best linear fit of the
λ(T)=λ(0) vs [2(1 − T/T_(c))]^(−1/2) plot. Remarkably there is only a
few millidegrees difference between T_(c) obtained from the fit and
actual T_(c0). We use the slope of λ(T)=λ(0) vs $1/\sqrt{2(1-T/T_{c})}$
and Eq. (10) to obtain the value of λ(0) =143 nm. To assure that this
λ(0) is in agreement with low-T data, we fit the f⁻² vs T data with Eqs.
(1) and (9) using fixed λ(0)=143 nm and free Δ(0) at low T. This fit is
shown in the inset to Fig. 4 by the solid curve. It is clear from this
inset that high-Tλ(0) is in agreement with low-T experimental data.

After completion of the analysis of the residual penetration depth we
attempt to estimate the residual mean free path l. In particular we
employ Drude formula [ρ(0) =3/N₀lν_(F)e²] where we use measured
ρ(0)=1.8μΩ cm, the electron density of states determined from C(T) data,
N₀=1.83 × 10²² st/eV cm, [32, 33] and the electron Fermi velocity of
ν_(F)=1.9 × 10⁸ cm/s [determined from E(k) data [20]], to obtain l=33
nm. This value is smaller than a coherence length [ξ(0)=45 nm, see
below] indicating that our samples are in dirty limit. This is confirmed
in Fig. 4 by slightly better fits of the λ(T)=λ(0) with Eq. (9) up to
T/T_(c)=0.5 (solid curve) relative to the clean limit [Eq. (8)] (dashed
curve). In order to investigate the temperature dependence of λ(T) in
the whole temperature region, in Fig. 6 we plot the superfluid density
λ²(0)λ²(T) versus the reduced T/T_(c) for the ZrB₁₂ sample using the
λ(0)=143 nm determined from one gap fit close to T_(c) [Eq. (10)] and
λ(0)=66 nm as determined from low-T fit [Eq. (9)], for comparison.

One can easily notice from Fig. 6 an unconventional behavior of ZrB₁₂
superfluid density with pronounced shoulder at T/T_(c) equal to 0.65 for
both λ(0). This feature can be explained by a model of two independent
BCS superconducting bands with different plasma frequencies, gaps, and
T_(c)’s. [24] We label these two bands as p- and d-bands according to
electron structure of ZrB₁₂. [20] Assuming parallel currents through
alternating subsystems, the conductivity is a sum of partial bands
conductivities. The imaginary part of the conductivity is proportional
to 1/λ², thus we can write in dirty limit: [45]

$$\frac{1}{\uplambda^{2}(T)}=\frac{\Delta_{p}(T)\text{tanh}\bigg{(}\frac{\Delta _{e}}{2k_{B}T}\bigg{)}}{\uplambda_{p}^{2}(0)\Delta_{p}(0)}+\frac{\Delta_{d}(T )\text{tanh}\bigg{(}\frac{\Delta_{d}}{2k_{B}T}\bigg{)}}{\uplambda_{d}^{2}(0) \Delta_{d}(0)}.$$
(11)

Here Δ_(i) is the superconducting energy gap and λ_(i)(0) is residual
penetration depth in the p- or d-band. Using this two gap λ(T) BCS-like
dependence and interpolation formula
Δ(T)=λ(0)tanh($1.88\sqrt{T_{c}/T}$=1) we fit the experimental data with
six fitting parameters: λ_(i), Δ_(i), and T_(c)^(′). From this fit we
obtain T_(c)^(′)=6.0 K, T_(c)^(′)=4.35 K, Δ_(p)(0)=0.73 meV,
Δ_(d)(0)=2.1 meV, λ_(p)(0)=172 nm, and λ_(d)(0)=260 nm, for p- and
d-bands, respectively. Dashed and dotted lines in Fig. 6 show the
contributions of each p- and d-band, respectively. Clearly low
temperature dependence of λ²(0)/λ²(T) is dominated by the d-band with
the smallest T_(c), whereas the high temperature behavior results from
the p-band with the larger T_(c). Notice that this analysis was applied
for more reliable λ(0)=143 nm data. The reduced energy gap for p-band,
2Δ_(p)(0)/k_(B)T_(c)^(′)=2.81, is rather small relative to the BCS value
3.52, while d-band value, 2Δ_(d)(0)/k_(B)T_(c)^(′)=6.44, is twice as
big. Thus we suggest that ZrB₁₂ may have two superconducting bands with
different T_(c) and order parameters. Notice that this unusual
conclusion may be right for two bands in the limit of zero interband
coupling in agreement with resistivity data. Also, the λ(0) of ZrB₁₂ may
not be constant over the Fermi surface. Here we just tried to fit a data
assuming two gap distinct values.

We based our conclusion on the two-gap model for dirty-limit
superconductors, suggested by Gurevich. [45] In this model, we can write

$$\frac{1}{\uplambda^{2}(0)}=\frac{4\pi^{2}e^{2}}{\hbar c^{2}}(N_{p}\Delta_{p}D _{p}+N_{d}\Delta_{d}D_{d})=\frac{1}{\uplambda_{p}^{2}(0)}+\frac{1}{\uplambda_ {d}^{2}(0)},$$
(12)

where N_(i), Δ_(i), and D_(i) are the density of states, the energy gap,
and the diffusivity in p- and d-bands, respectively.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature variations of λ(T) for ZrB₁₂
sample. The inset shows λ(T)→λ(0) vs BCS reduced temperature.

The calculated band structure of ZrB₁₂ is composed of three Fermi
surface sheets: an open sheet along the ΓL direction with k_(ΓX)=0.47
A⁻¹, a quasispherical sheet at point X ($k_{\rm{Xt}}$=0.37 A⁻¹), and a
small sheet at point K ($k_{\rm{KT}}$=0.14 A⁻¹).[20] It is not clear
from Ref. [20] whether the wave functions of carriers on these sheets
are due to predominantly p- or d-states. However, it follows that the
dominant contribution to the density of states N(E_(g)) is made by the
Zr_(kd) and B_(2p), states, with N_(d)=7.3×10²¹ st/eV cm³ and
N_(p)=8.7×10²¹ st/eV cm³, respectively.[20] The B_(2p) bonding states
are responsible for the formation of B₁₂ intracluster covalent bonds. In
turn, Zr_(kd) bands are due to Zr sublattice. A much smaller boron
isotope effect on T_(c) in comparison with Zr isotopic substitution[13,
14] may be an indication of the existence of two separate subsystems
with different gaps and T_(c) values. We use this two band approach [Eq.
(12)] to obtain p-band diffusivity of D_(p)=57 cm²/s and d-band
diffusivity of D_(d)=10 cm²/s. Note that there is almost a six times
difference between the p- and d-band diffusivity. We use this result for
our discussion of H_(c2)(T) data in the following paragraph.

The important goal of this paper is comparison of ZrB₁₂ and MgB₂ data.
For comparison, in Fig. 4 we show the temperature variation of λ(T) and
in Fig. 6 a λ²(0)/λ²(T) versus reduced temperature T/T_(c) for the best
MgB₂ film as determined from the one-coil technique [Eq. (2)] and
inversion procedure from Eq. (4) with λ(0)=114 nm. The solid line
represents BCS single gap calculations by the aid of a single term of
Eq. (11) and using finite energy gap [Δ(0)=1.93 meV] as the fit
parameter. According to Fig. 6, there is a very good agreement between
experimental data and the single band BCS curve over the full
temperature range. Simple conventional s-wave dirty case fit by Eq. (9)
agrees remarkably well with the low-T data at T<T_(c)/2 too. The reduced
energy gap 2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) is evaluated to be 1.2. It is actually
within the range of values for 3D π bands obtained by PCS on MgB₂ single
crystals [Δ(0)=2.9 meV],[46] and it agrees with λ(T) data obtained from
similar radio-frequency experiments on single crystals (1.42 meV[47]),
thin films (2.3 meV[33]), and with the theoretical prediction of the
two-band model.[24] Rather small 2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) observed correspond to
the smallest energy gap in the two-gap model for the 3D π band. Notice
that we studied here the penetration depth in the ab plane due to the
samples being c-axis oriented thin films. This feature predicts that our
λ_(ab)(T) is determined by the small energy gap for the π-band. Both
λ(0) and Δ(0) are consistent with microwave measurements on similar
c-axis oriented thin films (107 nm and 3.2 meV, respectively).[48]

## V V. Upper and lower critical magnetic field

We now turn to the electronic transport data acquired in magnetic field.
We measured the dependence of ρ on magnetic field H in the temperature
range between 0.35 and 6 K in two different magnets at NHMFL,
Tallahassee, FL as well as in our superconducting coil. The first magnet
was resistive coil Bitter magnet, and second one was superconducting
magnet. Figure 7 displays the resistive magnetic field transitions at
various temperatures down to 0.35 K in the field oriented along the
sample bar. Two features are clearly seen: (i) as temperature decreases
the resistive transition continuously moves to higher fields without any
saturation, and (ii) longitudinal magnetoresistivity in the normal state
is very small. We used several different approaches to extract H_(c2)(T)
from our data. Initially, we extended the maximal derivative dρ/dH line
(dashed line in Fig. 7) up to the normal state ρ(T) level. The crossing
point of this line and the normal state ρ(T) gave us the estimate for
H_(c2)^(*) at various temperatures, as is indicated by the arrow.
Despite a clear broadening at the higher fields, the onset of the
resistive transition remains well-defined even at rather low
temperatures. To obtain an alternative estimate for H_(c2), we fitted
the field dependence of ρ(H) by a cubic polynomial and calculated the
derivative dρ/dH. We defined H_(c2) as the field where dρ/dH just starts
to deviate from zero (see Fig. 7). It is important to mention that even
in single crystalline samples the resistance can be affected by the
defects and surface superconductivity. To get even better fill for
H_(c2) we used our λ(H) data. Figure 8 shows a plot of the λ versus the
longitudinal magnetic field H measured at various temperatures. [We use
the same rectangular coil LC technique as for zero field λ(T)
measurements.] To avoid demagnetization effects like in Refs. [19] and
[21]-[23] we oriented our bar-shape sample with its longer side parallel
to the external dc field. Changes in the magnetic dependence of λ(H) are
directly proportional to the radio-frequency susceptibility of the
sample and reflect the bulk properties of it. To deduce the H_(c2) from
λ(H), we used approaches similar to those applied to ρ(T) data, i.e., a
straight-line fit representing the maximum of derivative dλ/dH (dashed
line in Fig. 8) was extended up to the normal state. H_(c2)^(*) was
defined as a crossing point of this line with normal state skin depth δ.
Figure 8 clearly demonstrates a well-defined onset of λ(H) transition.
We used this onset to estimate H_(c2).

Figure 9 shows the magnetic field λ(H) behavior at very small fields.
The λ(H)−λ(0) curves display clear linear de

Figure 7: (Color online) Resistivity of ZrB₁₂ in the vicinity of the
superconducting transition as a function of H at different T: 5.45,
5.08, 4.9, 4.26, 3.72, 3.26, 2.59, 2.16, 1.85, 1.39, 1.05, and 0.35 K
from left to right. The dotted line and the arrows describe how the
H_(c2) has been established. The inset shows the R(H)/R_(n) near the
transition at T=2.3 K for the same sample (right line) and a sample cut
from the ZrB₂ rich part of an ingot (left curve).

pendence at low fields caused by the Meissner effect. We determined the
value of H_(c1) from the crossing point of two linear dependencies below
and above the break point on λ(H) (see Fig. 9).

Figure 10 presents the H_(c2)^(*)(T) dependence obtained from
extrapolation of the maximum of slopes of both ρ(H) and λ(H), as well as
those defined at the onsets of the finite ρ(H) and λ(H). In the same
figure we also plot the H_(c1)(T), acquired by using the break point of
λ(H) criteria as the definition of the lower critical magnetic field. A
remarkable feature of this plot is an identical linear increase of
H_(c2) with decreasing temperature for each of the methods of defining
H_(c2). As we can see from this figure, the H_(c2) data obtained at
three different magnets agree remarkably well and are aligned along
corresponding straight lines indicating linear H_(c2)(T) dependence down
to 0.35 K.

To see whether one gap BCS model may work for ZrB₁₂, we extrapolate
H_(c2)(T) to zero temperature by use of the derivative of dH_(c2)(T)/dT
close to T_(c) and the assumption that the zero temperature H_(c2)(0) =
0.697_(c)dH_(c2)/dT∣_(T_(c)).[39] The resulting H_(c2)(0) = 114 mT is
substantially lower than the low temperature onset data below 3 K (see
Fig. 10). Linear extrapolation of H_(c2)(T) to T = 0 gives H_(c2)(0) =
162 mT. This value is almost the same as that obtained in the
polycrystalline ZrB₁₂ samples (150 mT).[16] We used this value to obtain
the coherence length ξ(0) by employing the relations H_(c2)(0) =
ϕ₀/2πξ²(0). The latter yields ξ(0) = 45 nm, which is substantially
larger than a few angstroms coherence length of high-T_(c)
superconductors.

In contrast to Refs. [19, 22, and 23] our estimations agree well with
the Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ = λ/ξ. Using our values of λ_(p) and
λ_(d) data we obtain κ_(p) = 3.8 and κ_(d) = 5.8. Both values of κ are
larger then $1/\sqrt{2}$ that implies that ZrB₁₂ is clearly a type II
superconductor at all T. Using the GL expression for H_(c1)(T) =
ϕ₀ln κ/4πλ² we obtain H_(c2)/H_(c1) = 2κ²/ln κ. From the value H_(c2)(0)
obtained above and the H_(c1) data from Fig. 9, we find κ = 6.3 and λ(0)
= 280 nm which is in good agreement with the value λ(0) = 260 nm
obtained from the two gap BCS fit for d-band. One could argue that the
H_(c1)(T) obtained from our magnetic field measurements of λ(H) may
reflect the flux entry field because of the Bean-Livingston surface
barrier, rather then true H_(c1). However, the entry field
H_(BL)=H_(c1)κ/ln κ (Ref. [49]) is three times larger than H_(c1) even
when one uses κ = 6.3, so if we assume κ = 23 given by a ratio of
H_(c2)/H_(c1) we obtain zero temperature λ(0) = 1030 nm, which is
unreasonably large compared to one obtained from a BCS fit. This result
is another confirmation of our suggestions.

In contrast to the conventional BCS theory,[50]H_(c2)(T) dependence is
linear over an extended temperature range with no evidence of saturation
down to 0.35 K. Similar linear

Figure 8: (Color online) Magnetic field variation of λ(H) of a single
crystal ZrB₁₂ sample at different temperatures: 5.66, 5.53, 5.02, 4.06,
3.45, 2.84, 2.15, and 1.43 K, from left to right. The solid lines are
guides for the eye. The dotted line and the arrows describe how
H_(c2)^(*) and H_(c2) have been deduced.

Figure 10: (Color online) Temperature variations of H_(c2)(T) and
H_(c1)(T) (stars) of ZrB₁₂. Symbols: H_(c2)^(*)(T) determined from ρ(H)
(circles) and λ(H) (squares) extrapolations; closed points are the onset
H_(c2)(T) data, as described in the text. Open circles and squares are
ρ(T) data obtained in NHMFL. Dotted line is the BCS H_(c2)(T) data
determined from the HW formula (Ref. [50]). The straight crosses are PCS
data (Ref. [21]), tilted crosses are magnetization data (Ref. [22]), up
triangles are C(H) data, and down triangles are the ρ(H) data from Refs.
[19] and [23].

Figure 9: (Color online) Low magnetic field variation of λ(T) of a ZrB₁₂
sample at small fields at various temperatures: 5.8, 5.2, 4.8, 4.4, 3.8,
3.5, 3.1, and 1.5 K, from left to right. The solid lines are guides for
the eye. The dotted line is the linear extrapolation of the data used
for H_(c1) determination.

H_(c2)(T) dependence has been observed in MgB₂ (Refs. [51] and [52]) and
BaNbO_(x) (Ref. [53]) compounds. One can describe this behavior of upper
critical field using the two gap approach. According to Gurevich,[45]
the zero-temperature value of the H_(c2)(0) is significantly enhanced in
the two gap dirty limit superconductor model:

$$H_{c2}(0)=\frac{\phi_{b}k_{B}T_{c}}{1.12\hbar\,\sqrt{D_{1}D_{2}}}\exp\left(\frac {g}{2}\right),$$
(13)

as compared to the one-gap dirty limit approximation
H_(c2)(0) = ϕ_(b)k_(B)T_(c)/1.12ℏD. Here g is a rather complicated
function of the matrix of the BCS superconducting coupling constants.

In the limit of D₂ ≪ D₁ we can simply approximate g = |ln (D₂/D₁)|. The
large ratio of D₂/D₁ leads to the enhancement of H_(c2)(0) and results
in the upward curvature of the H_(c2)(T) close to T  = 0.[45] According
to our λ(T) data (see above), we found very different diffusivities for
p- and d-bands: D_(p)/D_(d) = 3. Thus we can speculate that the limiting
value of H_(c2)(0) is dominated by d-band with lower diffusivity
D_(d) = 17 cm²/s, while the derivative dH_(c2)/dT close to T_(c) is due
to larger diffusivity band (D_(p) = 56 cm²/s). Indeed, simple estimation
of D_(p) = 4ϕ_(b)k_(B)/π²ℏ(dH_(c2)/dT) = 40 cm²/s from a derivative
dH_(c2)/dT = 0.027T/K close to T_(c) gives almost the same diffusivity
relative to one estimated from λ(T) for the p-band. Thus we believe that
the two gap theoretical model of Gurevich qualitatively explains the
unconventional linear H_(c2)(T) dependence, which supports our
conclusion about the two gap nature of superconductivity in ZrB₁₂.

The possibility of the multigap nature of the superconducting state was
predicted for a multiband superconductor with large difference of the
e-p interaction at different FS sheets (see Ref. [24] and references
therein). To date MgB₂ has been the only compound with the behavior
consistent with the idea of two distinct gaps with the same T_(c). We
believe that our data can add ZrB₁₂ as another unconventional example of
multigap and multi-T_(c) superconductor. This conclusion contradicts
several existing publications, however, we believe we can successfully
defend our idea.

The H_(c2)(T) dependence of ZrB₁₂ single crystals from the same Kiev
group has been measured by three different groups mentioned above and
are plotted in Fig. 10. Clearly, our H_(c2)(T) data are very similar to
those obtained by Daghero _et al.[21]_ (straight crosses). The agreement
is nearly perfect except the last data point at 1.8 K. The disagreement
is in the interpretation. The authors of Ref. [21] concluded that ZrB₁₂
is a conventional one gap s-wave superconductor with Δ(0) = 1.22 meV.
Thus a strong coupling scenario with reduced energy gap of
2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 4.8 was proposed. One should note, however, that the
gap signature in PCS data has been observed in a temperature range close
to T_(c)(4.2 − 6 K), although the second gap signature feature should
have been seen below $T_{c}^{\rm q}\!=\!4.35$ K, and could have been
simply missed by the authors of Ref. [21] because of the limited
temperature range of their measurements.

There is nearly a two times difference between H_(c2)(T) obtained from
tunneling and magnetic characterization data of Tsindlekht _et al.[22]_
The same can be said about H_(c2)(T) obtained from C(H) and ρ(H) data of
Lortz _et al.[19]_ and Wang _et al.[23]_ Tsindlekht _et al._ concluded
that ZrB₁₂ is a type-II superconductor with the Ginzburg-Landau
parameter κ slightly above the marginal value of $1/\sqrt{2}$. At the
same time Wang _et al.[23]_ observed a crossover between type-I and
type-II behavior of C(H) at 4.7 K in contrast to our data. In all those
approximations, the validity of the one gap BCS picture is implicitly
assumed. Large contradiction between the ρ(H) and C(H) data (see Fig.
10) was attributed to surface superconductivity. One can mention another
possible reason for this contradiction. In particular, data of Ref. [23]
have been measured on the samples cut by a diamond saw without chemical
etching of the surface damaged layer. This procedure may create a strong
concentration gradient of boron in a surface layer and a substantial
manifestation of the surface barriers for the flux lines resulting in
this contradiction. One can also note that the discrepancies in
H_(c2)(T) can be due to potentially large nonhomogeneity of the ZrB₁₂
samples. Indeed, the Fig. 7 inset clearly demonstrates different
transitions for our sample with no inclusions of ZrB₂ and the sample cut
from ZrB₂ reaches part of an ingot (left line).

We believe that this inconsistency of our data and the data of Refs.
[19] and [21]-[23] can be (i) due to the two gap nature of
superconductivity in ZrB₁₂, (ii) due to large uncertainty in determining
of the zero temperature gap from very narrow temperature range of the
measurements, and (iii) last but not least due to potentially large
nonhomogeneity of the ZrB₁₂ samples that could have been used by those
authors (see Fig. 2). Although observed two gap behavior of λ²(0)/λ²(T)
in ZrB₁₂ is similar to that in high-T_(c) superconductors, observation
of two different T_(c) in these bands is unconventional. This also
relates to the linear H_(c2)(T) dependence in the wide temperature range
up to T_(c). Striking two-gap BCS behavior observed calls certainly for
a new study of low-T energy gap and H_(c)(T) of ZrB₁₂ for understanding
the nature of superconductivity in this cluster compound.

## VI Conclusions

We performed systematic study of the temperature and magnetic field
dependencies of the resistivity, magnetic penetration depth, lower,
H_(c1)(T), and upper, H_(c2)(T), critical magnetic fields of the single
crystals dodecaboride ZrB₁₂ and resistivity of diboride ZrB₂, as well as
the magnetic penetration depth in thin films of MgB₂. While the
temperature dependence of λ(T) in thin film MgB₂ is well described by an
isotropic single gap s-type order parameter, we find unconventional
behavior of ZrB₁₂ superfluid density with pronounced shoulder at T/T_(c)
equal to 0.65. The H_(c2)(T) dependencies have been deduced from the
ρ(H) and λ(H) data. Both techniques reveal an unconventional linear
temperature dependence of H_(c2)(T), with a considerably low value of
H_(c2)(0) = 0.16 T. We conclude therefore that ZrB₁₂ presents a evidence
of the unconventional two-gap superconductivity with different Δ and
T_(c) in the different bands.

## Acknowledgments

We would like to thank V. F. Gantmakher, A. Gurevich, R. Huguenin, D.
van der Marel, and I. R. Shein for very useful discussions, V. B.
Filipov, A. B. Lyashenko, and Yu. B. Paderno for preparation of ZrB₁₂
and ZrB₂ single crystals, Hong-Ying Zhai, H. M. Christen, M. P.
Paranthanam, and D. H. Lowndes for providing us high-quality MgB₂ films,
A. Suslov for help in low-T measurements in NHMFL, L. S. Uspenskaja for
help in metallographic analysis, and L. V. Gasparov for very useful
cooperation in paper preparation. This work was supported by the Russian
Council on High-Temperature Superconductivity (Grant Volna 4G), the
Russian Scientific Programs: Surface Atomic Structures (Grant No.
4.10.99) and Synthesis of Fullerenes and Other Atomic Clusters (Grant
No. 541-028), Russian Ministry of Industry, Science and Technology
(Grant Msh-2169.2003.2), the Russian Foundation for Basic Research
(Grant No. 02-02-16874-a), and by the INTAS (Grant No. 2001-0617). A
portion of this work was performed at the National High Magnetic Field
Laboratory, which is supported by NSF Cooperative Agreement No.
DMR-0084173 and the State of Florida.

## References

* (1) J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zanitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * (2) V. A. Gasparov, N.
S. Sidorov, I. I. Zver’kova, and M. P. Kulakov, JETP Lett. **73**, 601
(2001). * (3) Z. Fisk, in _Boron-Rich Solids_, edited by D. Emin, T. L.
Asclage, A. C. Switendick, B. Morosin, and C. L. Beckel, AIP Conf. Proc.
No. 231 (AIP, New York, 1991), p. 155. * (4) A. Yamamoto, C. Takao, T.
Masui, M. Izumi, and S. Tajima, Physica C **383**, 197 (2002). * (5) R.
Escamilla, O. Lovera, T. Akachi, A. Duran, R. Falconi, F. Morales, and
R. Escudero, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, 5979 (2004). * (6) D. P.
Young, R. G. Goodrich, P. W. Adams, J. Y. Chan, F. R. Fronczek, F.
Drymiotis, and L. L. Henry, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 180518(R) (2002). * (7)
N. Ashcroft, Phys. Rev. Lett. **21**, 1748 (1968). * (8) J. Kortus, I.
I. Mazin, K. D. Belashchenko, V. P. Antropov, and L. L. Boyer, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **86**, 4656 (2001). * (9) K. Tanigaki, T. W. Ebbesen, S.
Saito, J. Mizuki, J. S. Tsai, Y. Kubo, and S. Kuroshima, Nature (London)
**352**, 222 (1991). * (10) O. Gunnarsson, Rev. Mod. Phys. **69**, 575
(1997). * (11) B. T. Matthias, T. H. Geballe, K. Andres, E. Corenzwit,
G. Hull, and J. P. Maita, Science **159**, 530 (1968). * (12) Y.
Paderno, N. Shitsevalova, I. Batko, K. Flahbart, H. Misiorek, J. Mucha,
and A. Jezowski, J. Alloys Compd. **219**, 215 (1995). * (13) C. W. Chu
and H. H. Hill, Science **159**, 1227 (1968). * (14) Z. Fisk, A. C.
Lawson, B. T. Matthias, and E. Corenzwit, Phys. Lett. A **37**, 251
(1971). * (15) V. A. Gasparov, N. S. Sidorov, M. P. Kulakov, I. I.
Zver’kova, V. P. Kobyakov, Hong-Ying Zhai, H. M. Christen, M. P.
Paranthaman, and D. H. Lowndes, _Book of abstracts of BOROMAG Conf.
(Geno, Italy)_ (2002), p. 52. * (16) V. A. Gasparov, N. S. Sidorov, I.
I. Zver’kova, S. S. Khassanov, and M. P. Kulakov, JETP **128**, 115
(2005). * (17) V. A. Gasparov, N. S. Sidorov, I. I. Zver’kova, V. B.
Filipov, A. B. Lyashenko, and Yu. B. Paderno, _Book of Abstracts of 6th
Biennial International Workshop on Fullertenes and Atomic Clusters_ (St.
Petersburg, 2003), p. 83; _Book of Abstracts of 10th International
Workshop on Oxide Electronics_ (Augsburg, 2003), p. 184. * (18) V. A.
Gasparov, M. P. Kulakov, N. S. Sidorov, I. I. Zver’kova, V. B. Filipov,
A. B. Lyashenko, and Yu. B. Paderno, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **80**,
376 (2004) [JETP Lett. **80**, 330 (2004)]. * (19) R. Lortz, Y. Wang, S.
Abe, C. Meingast, Yu. B. Paderno, V. Filippov, and A. Junod, Phys. Rev.
B **72**, 024547 (2005). * (20) I. R. Shein and A. L. Ivanovskii, Fiz.
Tverd. Tela (Leningrad) **45**, 1363 (2003) [Phys. Solid State **45**,
1429 (2003)]. * (21) D. Daghero, R. S. Gonnelli, G. A. Ummarino, A.
Calzolari, V. Dellarocca, V. A. Stepanov, V. B. Filippov, and Y. B.
Paderno, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **17**, S250 (2004). * (22) M. I.
Tsindlekht, G. I. Leviev, I. Asulin, A. Sharoni, O. Millo, I. Felner,
Yu. B. Paderno, V. B. Filippov, and M. A. Belogolovskii, Phys. Rev. B
**69**, 212508 (2004); G. I. Leviev, V. M. Genkin, M. I. Tsindlekht, I.
Felner, Yu. B. Paderno, and V. B. Filippov, cond-mat/0410356
(unpublished). * (23) Y. Wang, R. Lortz, Yu. Paderno, V. Filippov, S.
Abe, U. Tutsch, and A. Junod, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 024548 (2005). * (24)
A. Brinkman, A. A. Golubov, H. Rogalla, O. V. Dolgov, J. Kortus, Y.
Kong, O. Jepsen, and O. K. Andersen, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 180517(R)
(2001); A. A. Golubov, A. Brinkman, O. V. Dolgov, J. Kortus, and O.
Jepsen, _ibid._**66**, 054524 (2002). * (25) Yu. Paderno, A.
Liashchenko, V. Filippov, and A. Dukhnenko, _Science for Materials in
the Frontier of Centuries: Advantages and Challenges_, edited by V. V.
Skorokhod (IPM NASU, Kiev, 2002), p. 347. * New Cryst. Struct. **217**,
319 (2002). * (27) M. Paranthaman, C. Cantoni, H. Y. Zhai, H. M.
Christen, T. Aytug, S. Sathyamurthy, E. D. Specht, J. R. Thompson, D. H.
Lowndes, H. R. Kerchner, and D. K. Christen, Appl. Phys. Lett. **78**,
3669 (2001). * (28) V. A. Gasparov, M. R. Mkrtchyan, M. A. Obolensky,
and A. V. Bondarenko, Physica C **1**, 197 (1994). * (29) C. Varmais and
M. Strongin, Phys. Rev. B **10**, 1885 (1974). * (30) V. A. Gasparov and
A. P. Oganesyan, Physica C **178**, 445 (1991). * (31) A. Gauzzi, J. Le
Cochee, G. Lamura, B. J. Jonsson, V. A. Gasparov, F. R. Ladan, B.
Placais, P. A. Probst, D. Pavuna, and J. Bok, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **71**,
2147 (2000). * (32) V. A. Gasparov, G. Tsydynzhapov, I. E. Batov, and Qi
Li, J. Low Temp. Phys. **139**, 49 (2005). * (33) G. Lamura, E. Di
Gennaro, M. Salluzzo, A. Andreone, J. Le Cochee, A. Gauzzi, C. Cantoni,
M. Paranthaman, D. K. Christen, H. M. Christen, G. Giunchi, and S.
Ceresara, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 020506(R) (2001). * (34) I. R. Shein, N.
I. Medvedeva, and A. L. Ivanovskii, Fiz. Tverd. Tela (Leningrad) **45**,
1541 (2003) [Phys. Solid State **45**, 1617 (2003)]. * (35) J. M. Ziman,
_Electrons and Phonons, Theory of Transport Phenomena in Solids_ (Oxford
University Press, Oxford, England, 1960). * (36) V. F. Gantmakher, Rep.
Prog. Phys. **37**, 317 (1974). * (37) V. A. Gasparov and R. Huguenin,
Adv. Phys. **42**, 393 (1993).

* [38] J. Halbritter, Z. Phys. **243**, 201 (1971). * [39] J. B.
Ketterson and S. N. Song, _Superconductivity_ (Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge, England, 1999). * [40] W. N. Hardy, D. A. Bonn, D. C.
Morgan, R. Liang, and K. Zhang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3999 (1993). *
[41] D. A. Bonn, S. Kamal, K. Zhang, R. Liang, D. J. Baar, E. Klein, and
W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4051 (1994). * [42] N. Klein, N.
Tellmann, H. Schulz, K. Urban, S. A. Wolf, and V. Z. Kresin, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **71**, 3355 (1993). * [43] N. Schopohl and O. V. Dolgov, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **80**, 4761 (1998); **81**, 4025 (1998). * [44] A.
Carrington, F. Manzano, R. Prozorov, R. W. Giannetta, N. Kameda, and T.
Tamegai, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1074 (2001). * [45] A. Gurevich, Phys.
Rev. B **67**, 184515 (2003). * [46] R. S. Gonnelli, D. Daghero, G. A.
Ummarino, V. A. Stepanov, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, and J. Karpinski, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **89**, 247004 (2002). * [47] F. Manzano, A. Carrington, N.
E. Hussey, S. Lee, A. Yamamoto, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**,
047002 (2002). * [48] B. B. Jin, N. Klein, W. N. Kang, H.-J. Kim, E.-M.
Choi, S.-I. Lee, T. Dahm, and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 104521
(2002). * [49] P. G. de Gennes, _Superconductivity of Metals and Alloys_
(Addison-Wesley, New York, 1989), p. 79. * [50] E. Helfand and N. R.
Werthamer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **13**, 686 (1964); Phys. Rev. **147**, 288
(1966). * [51] L. Lyard, P. Samuely, P. Szabo, T. Klein, C. Marcenat, L.
Paulius, K. H. P. Kim, C. U. Jung, H.-S. Lee, B. Kang, S. Choi, S.-I.
Lee, J. Marcus, S. Blanchard, A. G. M. Jansen, U. Welp, G. Karapetrov,
and W. K. Kwok, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 180502(R) (2002). * [52] A. V.
Sologubenko, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H. R. Ott, Phys.
Rev. B **65**, 180505(R) (2002). * [53] V. A. Gasparov, S. N. Ermolov,
G. K. Strukova, N. S. Sidorov, S. S. Khassanov, H.-S. Wang, M.
Schneider, E. Glaser, and W. Richter, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 174512
(2001); V. A. Gasparov, S. N. Ermolov, S. S. Khassanov, G. K. Strukova,
L. V. Gasparov, H.-S. Wang, Qi Li, M. Schnider, W. Richter, E. Glaser,
F. Schmidl, P. Seidel, and B. L. Brandt, Physica B **284-288**, 1119
(2000).
