Magnetism and crystal-field effects in the R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R = La, Ce, Pr, Nd,
Tb, Gd, Dy, Er, Ho, and Tm) system

S. Ramakrishnan, N. G. Patil, Aravind D. Chinchure, and V. R. Marathe

Tata Institute Of Fundamental Research, Mumbai-400005, India

1 September 2000; revised manuscript received 19 January 2001; published
23 July 2001

###### Abstract

It is demonstrated through detailed studies that compounds belonging to
the R₂Fe₃Si₅ series exhibit unusual superconducting and magnetic
properties. Although a reasonable number of studies have been made on
this series, only a few investigations have been carried out on closely
related R₂Rh₃Si₅ series. In this work, we attempt to provide a
comprehensive study of bulk properties such as resistivity,
susceptibility, and heat capacity of large number of compounds which
form in this series. Our measurements indicate the existence of a
considerable contribution from the splitting of the energy levels due to
crystalline electric fields (CEF’s) to the bulk properties of all
magnetic rare-earth compounds. We also propose a model to account for
this CEF contribution.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.64.064514

## I Introduction

Ternary silicides, which form in a variety of crystal structures, have
led to a large number of studies due to their remarkable physical
properties.[1, 2] Some of these also undergo superconducting transitions
at low temperatures.[3, 4] Considerable work has been done to understand
the superconductivity and magnetism exhibited by compounds belonging to
the R₂Fe₃Si₅ system.[5, 6, 7, 8] In this family the Fe atoms do not
carry any moment but help in building a large density of states at the
Fermi level.[9] It is now well established that a member of this series,
namely, Tm₂Fe₃Si₅,[10] is the first reentrant antiferromagnetic
superconductor. A recent report suggested that an antiferromagnet
Er₂Fe₃Si₅ (Ref. [11]) (below 2.5 K) becomes superconducting below 1 K,
whereas an earlier heat-capacity study[8] indicated quadruple magnetic
transitions without any superconductivity down to 1.5 K in this system.
On the other hand, very few studies have been made of the R₂Rh₃Si₅
series, whose structure is closely related to that of R₂Fe₃Si₅
compounds. In particular, we are aware of only three reports on the
superconductivity and magnetism of R₂Rh₃Si₅ series.[12, 13, 14, 15, 16]
Although both iron silicides and rhodium silicides are derived from a
BaAl₄-type structure, the former form in a tetragonal structure (space
group P4/mnc) while the latter exist in an orthorhombic structure (space
group Ibam). Since the compounds belonging to R₂Fe₃Si₅ series exhibit
unusual superconducting and exotic magnetic properties, it will be
worthwhile to study the magnetic ordering and superconductivity in the
R₂Rh₃Si₅ family. Earlier, a brief account of susceptibility and
heat-capacity studies of some of compounds was reported.[17] In this
study, we report our detailed resistivity, susceptibility,
magnetization, and heat-capacity measurements on R₂Rh₃Si₅ alloys.
Furthermore, we provide a crystal-field scheme to account for the
temperature dependence of the susceptibility and entropy above the
magnetic transition temperature observed in compounds containing
magnetic rare-earth systems–except for Ce₂Rh₃Si₅ which is a
well-established strongly hybridized nonmagnetic system. The paper is
organized as follows. Section II describes the experimental details, and
Sec. III deals with results. A detailed discussion of the results is
presented in Sec. IV, and Sec. V concludes our study.

## II Experimental details

Samples of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R = La and Lu) were made by melting the individual
constituents (taken in stoichiometric proportions) in an arc furnace
under a high-purity argon atmosphere. The purity of the rare-earth
elements and Rh was 99.99

  ----------- ------------ ------------- -----------
    Sample         a             b            c
                  (Å)           (Å)          (Å)
   La₂Rh₃Si₅   10.00±.005   11.96±.005    5.88±.005
   Ce₂Rh₃Si₅   9.89±.005    11.87±.005    5.82±.005
   Pr₂Rh₃Si₅   9.88±.005    11.85±.005    5.80±.005
   Nd₃Rh₃Si₅   9.87±.005    11.83±.005    5.78±.005
   Gd₃Rh₃Si₅   9.86±.005    11.81±.005    5.77±.005
   Tb₂Rh₃Si₅   9.85±.005    11.79±.005    5.76±.005
   Dy₂Rh₃Si₅   9.84±.005    11.77±.005    5.75±.005
   Ho₆Rh₃Si₅   9.82±.005    11.75±.005    5.74±.005
   Er₂Rh₃Si₅   9.80±.005    11.721±.005   5.73±.005
   Tm₂Rh₃Si₅   9.78±.005    11.68±.005    5.72±.005
   Lu₂Rh₃Si₅   9.76±.005    11.66±.005    5.71±.005
  ----------- ------------ ------------- -----------

Table 1: Lattice parameters obtained from the powder x-ray diffraction
pattern of samples of series R₂Rh₃Si₅.

plane [Fe(1)]. R2Rh3Si5 forms in an orthorhombic structure where the
arrangements of the [001] columns lead to a different coordination of
the transition metal and of silicon. Here two-thirds of the
transition-metal atoms are surrounded by a deformed square pyramid of
silicon atoms, and each of the remaining transition-metal atoms is in
the center of a silicon tetrahedron. The latter transition-metal atoms
form chains along the [001] direction. The rare-earth atoms in the
R2Rh3Si5 structure form a distorted square net with distances from 3.9
to 4.2 A within the layers, and interlayer distances of 5.4-6.2 A. The
nearest rare-earth distances in R2Fe3Si5 is 3.7 A. A small monoclinic
distortion of the structure R2Rh3Si5 (Lu2Co3Si5-type) is adopted by
heavier rare earths of the R2Rh3Si5 series.

The temperature dependence of the susceptibility (_kh_) was measured
using the Faraday method in a field of 4 kOe in a temperature range from
4 to 300 K. The ac susceptibility was measured using a home built
susceptometer [18] from 1.5 to 20 K. The resistivity was measured using
a four-probe dc technique, with contacts made using silver paint on a
cylindrical sample of 2-mm diameter and 10-mm length. The temperature
was measured using a calibrated Si diode (Lake Shore Inc., USA) sensor.
The sample voltage was measured with a nanovoltmeter (model 182,
Keithley, USA) with a current of 25 mA using a 20-ppm stable (Hewlett
Packard, USA) current source. All the data were collected using an IBM
compatible PC/AT via an IEEE-488 interface. The heat capacity in zero
field between 1.7 and 40 K was measured using an automated adiabatic
heat pulse method. A calibrated germanium resistance thermometer (Lake
Shore Inc, USA) was used as a temperature sensor in this range.

## III Results

### Study of magnetism in R2Rh3Si5

#### 1. Magnetic susceptibility studies

The temperature dependence of the inverse dc magnetic susceptibility
(1/_X__dc_) of R2Rh3Si5 (_R_ = La, Pr, Nd, and Tb) series in a field of
4 kOe from 2 to 300 K is shown in Fig. 2.

Figure 1: Structure of the unit cell of the series R2Rh3Si5.

Similar data for the rest of the compounds (_R_ = Gd, Dy, Ho, Er, and
Tm) are shown in Fig. 3. The insets show the inverse ac susceptibility
behavior of the samples at low temperature in an ac field of 2 Oe. These
insets clearly indicate an antiferromagnetic ordering of magnetic rare
earth compounds with the exception of Ce-, Pr-, and Tm-based compounds.
The antiferromagnetic orderings of heavy-earth compounds were further
supported by the nonlinear M vs H behavior below T_(n),[19] without any
significant hysteresis (data not shown for brevity). A previous
study[14] indicated that antiferromagnetism is possible in many
well-characterized samples of this series. However, that study did not
establish the bulk antiferromagnetic ordering observed in this series.
Some orderings exhibit multiple magnetic transitions, which will be
discussed below in connection with heat-capacity studies. In these
compounds the _R_-_R_ distance is estimated to be of the order of 4 A.
It is possible that the (Rudermann-, Kittel-, Kasuya-Yosida) (RKKY)
interaction between the magnetic _R_³⁺ ions is responsible for the
low-temperature ordering of R spins. However, at these low temperatures,
there is also a possibility that dipole-dipole interactions can also
contribute to the observed antiferromagnetism. Microscopic
investigations such as NMR are required to resolve this issue.

The high-temperature susceptibility (100 K<_T_ <300 K) is fitted to a
modified Curie-Weiss expression, which is given by

$$\chi = \chi_{0} + \frac{C}{(T + \theta_{p})}.$$

Here _kh_0 is the temperature independent susceptibility (sum of Pauli,
Landau, and core susceptibilities), C is the Curie constant, and _th__p_
is the Curie-Weiss temperature. The Curie constant C can be written in
terms of the effective moment as

$$C = \frac{\mu_{eff}^{2}x}{8},$$

where x is the concentration of R3+ ions (_x_ = 2 for R2Rh3Si_s_). The
values of _kh_0, C, _th__p_, and the experimentally determined _TN_ are
given in Table 2. In most cases, the estimated effective moment is found
to be nearly equal to the free ion moment of the magnetic R3+ ion. In
some cases, the observation of slightly larger m_(f) implies a
contribution

  ----------- -------- -------------- ---------- --------- ------- ------- ------
    Sample     T_(n)       _kh_0       _μ__eff_   _μ__ik_   T_(N)   _zJ_   
                 K       emu/mol K      _μ__B_    _μ__B_      K     cm⁻¹   
   La2Rh3Si    4.4 a     1.7 × 10⁻⁴       –          –        –       –      –
   Ce2Rh3Si3    ^(b)         –            –          –      2.54      –      –
   Pr2Rh3Si5     –       2.6 × 10⁻⁴      3.44      3.58       –     9.15     –
   Nd2Rh3Si5    2.7      9.4 × 10⁻⁴      3.49      3.62       –     2.75     –
   Gd2Rh3Si5    8.1      1.9 × 10⁻³      7.89      7.94       –     15.3     –
   Tb2Rh3Si5   7.5, 8   – 7.2 × 10⁻³    10.22      9.72       –     17.95    –
   Dy2Rh3Si5   4, 8.6   – 8.9 × 10⁻⁴    10.59      10.65    1.25      –     0.65
   Ho2h3Si5      3       – 5 × 10⁻³     10.57      10.61    0.77      –     0.6
   Er2Rh3Si5    2.5       2 × 10⁻²      11.95      9.59     12.8      –     0.7
   Tm2Rh3Si5   1.5 c    – 1.3 × 10⁻³     7.54      7.56       –     5.98     –
  ----------- -------- -------------- ---------- --------- ------- ------- ------

Table 2: Parameters obtained from the high temperature susceptibility
fit to the Curie-Weiss form in R2RhSi5 from 100 to 300 K. _μ__th_ is the
theoretical value and _T__N_= _θ__p_.

Figure 3: Variation of inverse susceptibility (1_kh_0) of R2Rh3Si5 (_R_
= Gd, Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm) series in a field of 4 kOe from 2 to 300 K.
The inset show the low temperature ac _kh_ data of R2Rh3Si5 (_R_ = Gd,
Dy, Ho, and Er).

Figure 2: Variation of inverse susceptibility (1_kh_0) of R2Rh3Si5 (_R_
= La, Nd, and Tb) series in a field of 4 kOe from 2 to 300 K. The inset
show the low-temperature ac _kh_ data of R2Rh3Si5 (_R_ = La, Nd, and
Tb).

from the conduction electrons (from the Rh band) to the rare-earth
magnetic moment. Below 100 K, the χ data show a deviation from
Curie-Weiss plot which could be due to the presence of crystal-field
contributions. We have proposed a crystal-field scheme to account for
this behavior, which will be described in Sec. IV.

#### iii.2.2 Resistivity studies

The temperature dependence of the resistivity (ρ) data of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R =
La, Ce, Pr, Nd, and Tb) are shown in Fig. 4. Similar data for the rest
of the compounds (R = Gd, Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm) are shown in Fig. 5. The
insets show the low-temperature ρ data on an expanded scale. The ρ data
of samples containing heavy-rare earth elements (except Tm₂Rh₃Si₅) and
Nd₂Rh₃Si₅ show a change of slope near the temperature, where magnetic
ordering is expected based on susceptibility studies. On the other hand,
a similar slope change in ρ is not observed in La₂Rh₃Si₅, Ce₂Rh₃Si₅ and
Tm₂Rh₃Si₅. La₂Rh₃Si₅ is a superconductor with a T_(c) = 4.4 K. This is
in accord with the T_(c) value obtained from χ data. Ce₂Rh₃Si₅ behaves
as a nonmagnetic system, whereas Tm₂Rh₃Si₅ does not order down to 1.8 K.
A recent study showed the presence of superconductivity and
antiferromagnetism below 1.7 K in polycrystalline samples of Tm₂Rh₃Si₅.
[20] However, studies on single-crystal samples are essential to
establish this result. In the paramagnetic state (T_(a)<T<25 K), the
temperature dependence of ρ of all the samples could be fit to a power
law which can be written as

ρ = ρ₀ + a T^(n).
(3)

The optimum values of n, ρ₀ and a are found given in Table III. The
low-temperature resistivity of some of the magnetic rare-earth compounds
show a T² dependence, while others show linear (Tb and Ho samples) and
cubic (Gd sample) dependences which are not understood at present. The
data are fit in the temperature range from above T_(N) to about 30 K. On
the other hand, for nonmagnetic La₂Rh₃Si₅ and Lu₂Rh₃Si₅, we obtain a
value of n = 3, and this value of n agrees with the Wilson’s s-d
scattering model, which predicted a T³ dependence of ρ(T) for transition
metal alloys below θ_(D)/10, where θ_(D) is the Debye temperature.

At high temperatures (100 K<T<300 K), the ρ data significantly deviate
from the linear temperature dependence. Such a deviation from linear
temperature dependence at high

  ----------- ------- ------------- ----- -------
  Sample        ρ₀          a         n    Range
               μΩ cm   nΩ cm/K^(n)          (K)
  La₂Rh₃Si₅    24.11      0.16        3    5–30
  Ce₂Rh₃Si₅    19.1       0.221       3    2–30
  Pr₂Rh₃Si₅    122.0      15.21      1.5   2–30
  Nd₂Rh₃Si₅    28.95      15.40      2.0   4–30
  Gd₂Rh₃Si₅    47.9       0.12        3    9–30
  Tb₂Rh₃Si₅    21.09      487.6      1.0   9–30
  Dy₂Rh₃Si₅    18.4       6.49        2    9–30
  Ho₂Rh₃Si₅    120.6      232.6       1    5–30
  Er₂Rh₃Si₅    15.3       34.8       1.5   4–30
  Tm₂Rh₃Si₅    17.5       257.0       1    2–30
  Lu₂Rh₃Si₅    57.3       0.04        3    2–30
  ----------- ------- ------------- ----- -------

Table 3: Parameters obtained from the low-temperature resistivity fit in
R₂Rh₃Si₅.

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the resistivity (ρ) of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R =
La, Ce, Pr, Nd, and Tb) from 2 to 300 K. The inset shows the
low-temperature ρ data of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R = La, Nd, and Tb) on an expanded
scale. The solid lines are fits to the models (see the text).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of resisitivity (ρ) of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R =
Gd, Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm) from 2 to 300 K. The inset shows the
low-temperature ρ data on an expanded scale. The solid lines are fits to
the models (see the text).

temperatures has been seen in many alloys where saturation is attributed
to the high value of ρ of these alloys at these temperatures. It occurs
because the mean free path becomes short, on the order of few atomic
spacings. When this happens, the scattering cross section will no longer
be linear in the scattering perturbation. Since the dominant
temperature-dependent scattering mechanism here is electron-phonon
interaction ρ will no longer be proportional to the mean-square atomic
displacement, which is proportional to T for a harmonic potential.
Instead, the resistance will rise less rapidly than linearly in T and
will show a negative curvature (d²ρ/dT²<0). This behavior was also seen
in previous studies on silicides and germanides.[21, 22]

One of the models which describe the ρ(T) of these compounds is known as
the parallel resistor model.[23] In this model the expression of ρ(T) is
given by

$$\frac{1}{\rho(T)}=\frac{1}{\rho_{1}(T)}+\frac{1}{\rho_{max}},$$
(4)

where ρ_(max) is a saturation resistivity which is independent of
temperature, and ρ₁(T) is the ideal temperature-dependent resistivity.
Further, the ideal resistivity is given by the expression

$$\rho_{1}(T)=\rho_{0}+C_{1}\left[\frac{T}{\theta_{D}}\right]^{3}\int_{0}^{\theta _{D}/T}\frac{x^{3}dx}{[1-\exp(-x)][\exp(x)-1]},$$
(5)

where ρ(0) is the residual resistivity, and the second term is due to
phonon-assisted electron scattering (s-f scattering) similar to the s-d
scattering in transition-metal alloys where x = hω_(D)/2πk_(B)T,  θ_(D)
is the Debye temperature, and C₁ is a numerical constant. Equation (4)
can be derived if we assume that the electron mean free path l is
replaced by l + a (a being an average interatomic spacing). Such an
assumption is reasonable, since infinitely strong scattering can only
reduce the electron mean free path to a. Chakraborty and Allen[24] made
a detailed investigation of the effect of strong electron-phonon
scattering within the framework of the Boltzmann transport equation.
They found that the interband scattering opens up "’nonclassical
channels" which account for the parallel resistor model. The values of
the parameters such as, ρ_(max) and θ_(D) are listed in Table 4 from
fitting the resistivity data to the above equations in the range 100-300
K.

### Heat-capacity studies on R₂Rh₃Si₅

The temperature-dependent C_(p) data from 2 to 35 K of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R= Ce,
Pr, Nd, and Tb) are shown in Fig. 6. Similar data for the rest of the
compounds (R= Gd, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm, and La) are shown in Fig. 7. The
insets show the low-temperature C_(p) data. The large jumps at the
respective T_(N)’s clearly show bulk magnetic ordering of many compounds
containing magnetic rare-earth elements except Ce₂Rh₃Si₅, Pr₂Rh₃Si₅, and
Tm₂Rh₃Si₅. The ordering temperatures obtained from heat-capacity
measurements are in accord with those obtained from χ and ρ
measurements. However, both Tb₂Rh₃Si₅ and Dy₂Rh₃Si₅ show multiple
magnetic transitions in the heat-capacity data. A double transition was
also seen in Tb₂Fe₅Si₅.[8] From these observations, we conclude that
compounds undergoing magnetic transitions exhibit bulk antiferromagnetic
ordering. The magnetic contribution to the heat capacity of various
compounds (which are obtained after subtracting the measured C_(p) data
from that of La₂Rh₃Si₅) are shown in Figs. 8, 9, 10, 11. The estimated
entropy from the experiment is also shown in the same figure. The
increase in the entropy at high temperatures (T>20 K) signifies a
contribution from crystal-field effects in all samples except that of La
and Gd. An exact calculation of the crystal-field contribution to the
entropy and susceptibility will be described in Sec. IV.

  ----------- --------- ------- -------- -------- --------- --------
  Sample       ρ_(max)    ρ₁       C      θ_(D)     Range    θ_(D)a
                μΩ cm    μΩ cm              K         K        K
  La₂Rh₃Si₅    224.43    14.1     850      332     100–300    338
  Pr₂Rh₃Si₅      503      112     645      132     100–300    335
  Nd₂Rh₃Si₅     1010     25.46    592     247.5    100–300     –
  Gd₂Rh₃Si₅     612.2    67.45    1118    469.2    100–300    352
  Tb₂Rh₃Si₅      348     61.6     626      667     100–300    558
  Dy₂Rh₃Si₅     505.7    27.3    626.24   389.4    100–300    403
  Ho₂Rh₃Si₅     963.2    20.68   560.3    279.9    100–300    477
  Er₂Rh₃Si₅     573.6    27.51   860.5    455.23   100–300     –
  Tm₂Rh₃Si₅     496.5     261    605.3    359.15   100–300    430
  ----------- --------- ------- -------- -------- --------- --------

Table 4: Parameters obtained from the parallel resistor model fit in
R₂Rh₃Si₅.

Figure 6: Plot of the heat capacity (C_(p)) vs temperature (T) of
R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R= Ce, Pr, Nd, and Tb) from 2 to 40 K. The inset shows the low
temperature C_(p) data on an expanded scale. The solid lines are fits to
the models (see text).

## IV Discussion and Analysis

From seen in Table 3, most samples have resistivity values typical of
rare-earth compounds at low temperature except for Ce₂Rh₃Si₅. This is
probably due to the inherent contribution arising from the strongly
hybridized state of the Ce ion, or due to the presence of microcracks in
the sample. The low-temperature resistivity (T_(n)<T<30 K) of some of
the compounds containing heavy rare-earth magnetic elements shows a T²
dependence (Dy and Nd), suggesting the dominance of spin fluctuations.
However, it is surprising that the low-temperature resistivity of
compounds having the

Figure 8: Plot of the magnetic contribution to the heat capacity (C_(m))
vs T of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R= Nd and Tb) from 2 to 35 K. The calculated entropy
from the experiment is shown in the same figure. The solid lines are
guides to the eye.

Figure 10: Plot of the magnetic contribution to the heat capacity
(C_(m)) vs T of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R= Ho, Er, and Tm) from 2 to 35 K. The
calculated entropy from experimental data is shown in the same figure.
The solid lines are guides to the eye.

Figure 7: Plot of the heat-capacity (C_(p)) vs temperature (T) of
R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R= Gd, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm and La) from 2 to 40 K. The inset shows
the low temperature C_(p) data on an expanded scale. The solid lines are
guides to the eye (see the text).

Figure 9: Plot of the magnetic contribution to the heat capacity (C_(m))
vs T of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R= Ce and Pr) from 2 to 35 K. The calculated entropy
from the experiment is shown in the same figure. The solid lines are
guides to the eye.

highest T_(n)’s (Gd and Tb) have different power-law behaviors. The low
temperature ρ of Gd2Rh3Si5 shows a T³ dependence, while ρ’s of Tb, Ho,
and Tm samples show a linear T behavior. We understand neither the T³
dependence nor the mechanism for linear behavior. It is worthwhile to
recall here that a similar linear dependence was seen in R₅Os4Ge10
samples.[22, 25] Although we could fit the high-temperature dependence
of ρ to the parallel resistor model (see Table 4) successfully, the
θ_(D) values obtained from such fits do not agree with those obtained
from heat-capacity data for most of the compounds (except La and Dy).
One of the reasons for this could be due to an anharmonic contribution
which is not considered in the parallel resistor model. The values of
ρ_(max) also vary considerably across the series. More investigations
are clearly needed here in order to understand the transport properties
of these compounds. The values of the ordering temperature T_(n),
entropy S(T_(n))/R, J,ln(2J + 1), and S(30K)/R are given in Table 5. We
now turn our attention to some of the systematic trends observed in
these data. We find a single magnetic transition in Nd2Rh3Si5,
Gd2Rh3Si5, Ho2Rh3Si5, and Er2Rh3Si5, whereas Tb2Rh3Si5 and Dy2Rh3Si5
show double transitions. In general, the antiferromagnetic ordering
temperature T_(n) is given by

$$T_{N} = \theta_{p} = \frac{3\,\pi n^{2}}{k_{B}E_{F}}J_{iJ}^{2}(g_{J} - 1)^{2}J(J + 1)$$

×∑_(i ≠ 0) F(2k_(F)R_(Oi))cos(k_(o) ⋅ R_(Oi))

where E_(F) is the Fermi energy, J_(sJ) is the exchange integral, k_(o)
is the propagation vector of spins, R_(Oi) is the distance between the
central ion O with its i nearest neighbors, and n is the density of
conduction electrons. F(x) is the RKKY interaction, and is given by

$$F(x) = \frac{\left[ \sin(x) - x\,\text{cos}(x) \right]}{x^{4}}.$$

This implies that the magnetic ordering temperatures for a series of
isostructural and isoelectronic metals are expected to scale as
(g_(J) − 1)²J(J + 1), where g_(J) is the Lande g factor and J is the
total in this case. The dashed line is obtained by similar normalization
to the observed ordering temperature of Gd2Rh3Si5, and gives the
ordering temperatures for the case where J is a good quantum number.
From Fig. 12, it is

  ----------- ------------ ------------ ---------------- ------------ ----------- ------
    Sample      T_(n)(K)    S(T_(N))/R         J          ln(2J + 1)   S(30 K)/R   B₀²
   Ce2Rh3Si5       –            –        $\frac{5}{2}$       1.79        0.24       –
   Pr2Rh3Si5       –            –              4            2.079        2.10      300
   Nd3Rh3Si5      2.7          0.27      $\frac{9}{2}$      2.302        0.78      330
   Gd2Rh3Si5      8.5          1.62      $\frac{7}{2}$      2.079        2.045      –
   Tb2Rh3Si5    7.8, 8.4       0.72            6            2.565        0.96      150
   Dy3Rh3Si5   3.77, 8.76      0.66      $\frac{15}{2}$     2.773        1.45      210
   Ho2Rh3Si5       3           0.60            8            2.833         1.9      200
   Er2Rh3Si5      2.6          0.18      $\frac{15}{2}$     2.773        1.44      –300
   Tm2Rh3Si5       –            –              6             2.56          –        –
  ----------- ------------ ------------ ---------------- ------------ ----------- ------

Table 5: Parameters obtained from the specific-heat measurement in
R₂Rh3Si5.

Figure 11: Plot of the magnetic contribution to the heat capacity
(C_(m)) vs T of R₂Rh3Si5 (R = Gd and Dy) from 2 to 35 K. The calculated
entropy from the experimental data is shown in the same figure. The
solid lines are guides to the eye.

evident that the ordering temperatures of the compounds do not follow
the de Gennes scaling (g_(J) − 1)²J(J + 1). The fact that many of them
do not follow the de Gennes [26] scaling implies that the main
interaction leading to the magnetic transitions in this series is not
RKKY interaction. All compounds (except Pr) containing the magnetic
rare-earth elements approximately show an entropy change of Rln 2 at
T_(n), which implies a doublet ground state. Large contributions from
crystalline electric fields (CEF’s) are evident since the full entropy
is not released at 35 K in all compounds except in the case of Gd₂Rh₃Si₅
where there is no CEF contribution. It is well known that the
crystalline electric fields can influence the magnetic transition
temperature [27] and that this could, in principle, account for the
difference between the observed data and the de Gennes scaling. If we
add CEF terms to the exchange Hamiltonian, one can write an expression
for the transition temperature as

$$T_{N} = \frac{2\,G\,(g_{J}-1)^{2}\Sigma_{J}{}_{z}^{J}\,\varepsilon\exp(-3\,B_{ 2}^{0}J_{z}^{0}/T_{N})}{\Sigma_{J}[\exp(-3\,B_{2}^{0}J_{z}^{2}/T_{N})]}$$

where G is the exchange constant for the 4f atoms, and B₂⁰ is the
crystal-field parameter. Since Gd is an S-state ion, its ordering
temperature can be used to fix the value of the exchange constant. We
find that the calculated values of T_(N) are closer to the observed
values (T_(n)) if one uses the B₂⁰ values from CEF analysis–except for
the Nd₂Rh₃Si₅ sample where we find θ_(p)=T_(n). Hence it is clear, that
despite the presence of CEF effects, the discrepancy between the
observed T_(n) and that found from de Gennes scaling cannot be solely
due to CEF’s.

### Crystal-field analysis

The low-temperature heat-capacity and magnetic susceptibility data show
strong influences of magnetic interaction. The entropy calculated from
the heat-capacity measurements and the reduction in the magnetic
susceptibility also show that there is considerable effect of CEF’s in
these compounds. We have analyzed the experimental results by taking
into account both CEF and magnetic interaction.

The Hamiltonian of a system consisting of spin-orbit coupling,
crystalline electric field, Zeeman and exchange field terms,

$${\cal H} = \lambda\vec{L}\cdot\vec{S}+{\cal H}_{c}+\beta\vec{H}\cdot(\vec{L} +2\vec{S})+{\cal H}_{ex}\,,$$

is diagonalized within the substates arising from the all lowest
multiplets of R³⁺ (R = Pr, Nd, Tb, Dy, Er, and Ho) to obtain the energy
and eigenfunctions of respective ions.

In R₂Rh₃Si₅ compounds, R³⁺ ions occupy only one site in the orthorhombic
U₂Co₃Si₅-type crystal structure which belongs to Ib_a_m space group. In
the orthorhombic symmetry, the crystal-field effects of f electrons are
characterized by nine parameters. However, the limited experimental data
prevented us from an independent unambiguous determination of all the
crystal-field parameters. In order to keep the number of parameters to a
bare minimum, we retained only second-order axial and rhombic
crystal-field terms. We also assumed that the structure adopted by heavy
rare compounds of this series can be approximately assumed to be
orthorhombic, since the real structure Lu₂Co₃Si₅ has only a small
monoclinic distortion.

The crystal-field Hamiltonian in terms of tensor operators, C_(m)^((n)),
after retaining only these terms, can be written as [28]

$${\cal H}_{c} = B_{0}^{2}\sum_{i}\,\,\,\,C_{0}^{(2)}(i) + B_{2}^{2}\sum_{i}\,\,\,\,C_{2}^{(2)}(i)$$

where C_(q)^(k)(θ, ϕ) are defined by

$$C_{q}^{k}(\theta,\phi) = \left(\frac{4\,\pi}{2\,K+1}\right)^{1/2}Y_{kq}(\theta,\phi),$$

and where Y_(kq)(θ, ϕ) are spherical harmonics of the f-electrons. Thus
B₀² and B₂² determine the strength of the crystal field due to axial and
rhombic distortion.

We observed that the quality of fit to the Schottky anomaly is poor
(near T_(N)) in these compounds, because of magnetic correlations which
persist even above the magnetic ordering temperatures. These short-range
correlations result in an additional parameter, which is not included in
our model. Our model can explain the data only in the paramagnetic
region. Moreover, in some compounds such as Nd₂Rh₃Si₅, we found that the
B₂² parameter was negligible compared to the B₀² parameter. Therefore,
in our final analysis, we neglected the effect of B₂². Thus B₀² is a
single parameter which could determine the strength of the crystalline
electric field. We obtained reasonable fit to the total entropy of the
magnetic heat capacities of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R = Pr, Nd, Tb, Dy, Er, and Ho).
The values of B₀² are given in Table 5. In all the compounds (except
Pr³⁺), we found that the best

Figure 12: Plot of the ordering temperatures of the compounds of the
series R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R = Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, and Er). The dashed lines represent
a scaling law where only the spin quantum number S is used, whereas the
solid lines are for a scaling law using total quantum number J (de
Gennes scaling; see the text for details).

Figure 14: Variation of the inverse susceptibility (1/χ_(dc)) of
R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R = Pr, Nd, Dy, Er, Ho, and Tb) series in a field of 4 kOe
from 20 to 300 K. The solid lines are fits to the model based on the
proposed crystal-field scheme.

Figure 13: Plot of the magnetic contribution to the entropy (S_(m)) vs T
of R₂Rh₃Si₅ (R = Ho, Er, Pr, and Tb) from 2 to 40 K. The solid lines are
fits to the CEF model.

Figure 15: Plot of the magnetic contribution to the heat capacity
(C_(m)) vs T of Nd₂Rh₃Si₅ from 2 to 30 K. The calculated and
experimental entropy values are shown in the same figure. The solid
lines are fits to the CEF model. The proposed crystal-field scheme for
Nd₂Rh₃Si₅ is also shown.

Er, and Ho) in the entire paramagnetic region. The fitted values of zJ
for various R₂Rh₃Si₅ compounds are given in Table 4. For Pr, we observe
a singlet ground state. The calculated and experimentally observed
susceptibilities are shown in Fig. 14. A tentative crystal-field scheme
for one of the rare-earth samples Nd₂Rh₃Si₅ is shown in Fig. 15. The
estimated entropy and magnetic contribution to the heat capacity are
also shown in the same figure.

Multiple magnetic ordering in Tb₂Rh₃Si₅ and Dy₂Rh₃Si₅

The multiple transitions observed in Tb₂Rh₃Si₅ and Dy₂Rh₃Si₅ probably
imply a typical second-order transition followed by a first-order
transition which occurs at low temperatures due to successive spin
reorientation effects. The slope (dχ/dT) changes in the magnetization
data at this transition, and is in agreement with the suggestion of a
first-order transition. However, at present, this is only a conjecture
which has to be verified by direct microscopic techniques such as
neutron-scattering measurements or magnetic x-ray scattering. In the
case of 4f systems, there is also a large spin-orbit coupling due to the
orbital contribution to the magnetic moment is only partially quenched
by the crystal field. This means, due to the highly directional nature
of the 4f orbitals, that the exchange between two f ions may be expected
to contain certain anisotropic terms which depend on the angles between
the magnetic moments and the crystallographic axes as well as on the
relative angle between the magnetic moment vectors. The presence of such
anisotropic interactions were demonstrated in Refs. [30] and [31]. This
anisotropic interaction causes a canting of the local moments only if
the total symmetry is the same in canted and uncanted states. The
canting angle is usually of the order of the ratio of the anisotropic to
isotropic exchange interaction. Such a theory could in principle,
account for multiple transitions in systems where L # 0, such as
Tb₂Rh₃Si₅ and Dy₂Rh₃Si₅. Single-crystal studies are useful in this case,
and efforts to grow them are in progress.

## V Conclusion

To conclude, we have observed antiferromagnetic ordering in many
compounds of the series R₂Rh₃Si₅ containing magnetic rare-earth elements
below 10 K with the exception of Ce₂Rh₃Si₅, Pr₂Rh₃Si₅, and Tm₂Rh₃Si₅.
Some of these exhibit multiple magnetic transitions. The nonmagnetic
sample La₂Rh₃Si₅ shows bulk superconductivity at 4.4 K, whereas
Lu₂Rh₃Si₅ remains normal down to 1.7 K. This is in contrast to the
Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ compound, that shows superconductivity below 6 K. The magnetic
ordering temperatures of R₂Rh₃Si₅ are similar in magnitude with respect
to those belonging to the R₂Fe₅Si₅ system, even though R-R distances are
10

## References

* [1] P. Rogl, in _Handbook of Physics and Chemistry of Rare Earths_,
edited by K. A. Gschneidner, Jr. and L. Eyring (Elsevier, Amsterdam,
1984), Vol. 7, pp. 1-264. * [2] J. Leciejewicz and A. Szytula, in
_Handbook of Physics and Chemistry of Rare Earths_, edited by K. A.
Gschneidner, Jr. and L. Eyring (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1989), Vol. 12, p.
133. * [3] H. F. Braun, J. Less-Common Met. **100**, 105 (1984). * [4]
R. N. Shelton, in _Proceedings of the International Conference on
Superconductivity in d- and f-band Metals_, edited by W. Buckel and W.
Weber (Kernforshungszentrum, Karlsruhe, Germany, 1982), p. 123. * [5] H.
F. Braun, Phys. Lett. **75A**, 386 (1980). * [6] H. F. Braun, C. U.
Segre, F. Acker, M. Rosenberg, S. Dey, and U. Deppe, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **25**, 117 (1981). * [7] A. R. Moodenbaugh, D. E. Cox, and H. F.
Braun, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 4702 (1981). * [8] C. B. Vining and R. N.
Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **28**, 2732 (1983). * [9] H. F. Braun, in
_Ternary Superconductors_, edited by G. K. Shenoy, B. D. Dunlap, and F.
Y. Fradin (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1980), p. 225. * [10] J. A. Gotaas,
J. W. Lynn, R. N. Shelton, P. Klavins, and H. F. Braun, Phys. Rev. B
**36**, 7277 (1987). * [11] S. Noguchi and K. Okuda, Physica B
**194-196**, 1975 (1994). * [12] B. Chevalier, P. Lejay, J. Etourneau,
M. Vlasse, and P. Hagenmuller, Mater. Res. Bull. **17**, 1211 (1980). *
[13] P. Lejay, I. Higashi, B. Chevalier, J. Etourneau, and P.
Hagenmuller, Mater. Res. Bull. **19**, 115 (1984). * [14] G. Venturini,
M. Meot-Meyer, J. F. Mareche, B. Malaman, and B. Roques, Mater. Res.
Bull. **21**, 33 (1986). * [15] N. G. Patil, K. Ghosh, and S.
Ramakrishnan, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 9679 (1995). * [16] N. G. Patil, K.
Ghosh, and S. Ramakrishnan, Physica B **223-224**, 392 (1996). * [17] N.
G. Patil and S. Ramakrishnan, Physica B **237-238**, 597 (1997). * [18]
S. Ramakrishnan, S. Sundaram, R. S. Pandit, and Girish Chandra, J. Phys.
E **18**, 650 (1985). * [19] We define the observed antiferromagnetic
ordering (AFM) temperature as T_(π), while the calculated temperature
was written as T_(N).

* [20] N. G. Patil _et al._ (unpublished). * [21] S. Ramakrishnan, K.
Ghosh, and Girish Chandra, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 10769 (1992). * [22] K.
Ghosh, S. Ramakrishnan, and Girish Chandra, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 10440
(1993). * [23] H. Wiesmann, M. Gurvitch, H. Lutz, A. K. Ghosh, B.
Schwarz, M. Strongin, P. B. Allen, and J. W. Halley, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**38**, 782 (1977). * [24] B. Chakraborty and P. B. Allen, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **42**, 736 (1979). * [25] Christian Jonason, K. Ghosh, S.
Ramakrishnan, and Girish Chandra, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 7169 (1994). *
[26] P. G. de Gennes, J. Phys. Radium **23**, 510 (1962). * [27] D. R.
Noakes and G. K. Shenoy, Phys. Lett. **91A**, 35 (1982). * [28] B. G.
Wybourne, _Spectroscopic Properties of Rare Earths_ (Interscience, New
York, 1965). * [29] V. R. Marathe and S. Mitra, J. Chem. Phys. **78**,
915 (1983). * [30] H. J. Zeiger and G. W. Pratt, _Magnetic Interactions
in Solids_ (Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1973), p. 247. * [31] R. J.
Birgeneau, M. T. Hutchings, J. M. Baker, and J. D. Riley, J. Appl. Phys.
**40**, 1070 (1969).
